Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-29T11:31:24+00:00

====== Various - Brazil ======
Created Friday 29 January 2021
@violence



Vilma [Jaime Félix da Silva]
Viena [Reginaldo Félix da Silva]
Valéria [José Wilson da Silva]
13 Mar 1993
Água Branca, west zone
Brazil
shot

also:

2 unnamed victims shot in 27 Dec 1992 and Jan 1993


Alisson Pereira Cabral dos Anjos (Camila Close)
2011
Barra Funda region
west of the capital of São Paulo
shot

ref: https://tdor.translivesmatter.info/reports/2011/05/26/alison-pereira-cabral-dos-anjos-camile_sao-paulo-brazil_e6dfd7c2



Military judges question benefit of former PM convicted of killing transvestites
1/29/2021 4:00 AM

Convicted of murdering transvestites, the ex-soldier of Rota (Ostensive Rounds Tobias de Aguiar) Cirineu Carlos Letang Silva is serving a sentence in a semi-open regime in a prison for military police, in disagreement with a recent rule of the Internal Affairs of the Military Court of Justice (TJM).

Letang's stay in the prison unit is questioned by military judges. The new rule states that the Romão Gomes Military Prison, located in the north of São Paulo, houses only active and reserve PMs (retired) and that expelled and dismissed members of the corporation serve time in common prisons. Data from the corporation itself shows that 17% of the current 205 detainees at the site are ex-military police.

Letang was dismissed from the PM and stopped being a soldier in 2008, after being sentenced in 2003 to 44 years for killing three transvestites in the early hours of March 13, 1993 in Água Branca, west zone. On that date, the sisters Vilma and Viena were killed, as they were called Jaime Félix da Silva and Reginaldo Félix da Silva, respectively. A few meters from where the sisters were killed, a new victim: Valéria, José Wilson da Silva's social name. He had already been convicted of the murders of two other transvestites, one on December 27, 1992 and the other in January 1993.

Since then, he has spent seasons at Romão Gomes and then at Tremembé Penitentiary II, in the Paraíba Valley, in the interior of the state.

After 18 years in prison, between the closed and the semi-open regime, Letang gained the benefit of the open regime in 2011. However, 71 days after his release, he went back to killing, in a crime in the Barra Funda region, west of the capital of São Paulo. The victim was the transvestite Camila Close, social name of Alisson Pereira Cabral dos Anjos.

With that, he was jailed again in the interior of São Paulo, but, in 2014, he returned to the military unit. For the crime, he was sentenced to 21 years in prison. In all homicides, Letang used the same method: shots to the victims' heads.

In the decision that took Letang out of the corporation, Judge Avivaldi Nogueira Junior, from TJM, stated that he "harbored hatred and contempt for transvestites". For the magistrate, the ex-PM committed the murders of March 1993 because "he did not admit that they, homosexuals-transvestites, publicly flaunted this condition and sought, for payment, partners on public roads for the practice of sexual acts".

Last year alone, 175 transvestites and trans women were murdered, according to data from Antra (National Association of Transvestites and Transsexuals). Among the victims, 56% were between 15 and 29 years old. Of the murders, 65% were directed at sex workers and 71% happened in public places. Almost eight out of ten victims were black people (black and brown). Another point is that 47% of the murders were committed by firearms, the same method used by Silva, according to the investigation into his crimes.

'Strangeness'
In 2019, Letang progressed again to the semi-open regime. In May of that year, when analyzing and denying a request from the ex-PM to attend common places during his lunch break at work outside jail, military judge Fernando Pereira pointed out his astonishment at the prisoner's situation:

It is necessary to state the strangeness of this rapporteur with the fact that the sentenced person is serving a sentence in the Military Police Prison Romão Gomes, since when he committed the crime of homicide that resulted in his conviction a long time ago, he was not part of the ranks of the Military Police.

In addition to having been convicted of killing transvestites, Letang's curriculum includes the invasion of Pavilion 9 of the extinct House of Detention, on October 2, 1992. In acting to control a rebellion, the PM killed 111 men, an event known as the Massacre do Carandiru ["the Carandiru Massacre"].


The ex-PM, however, was the only one involved to be tried separately, because he was arrested for the deaths of the transvestites and awaited a mental health report. For his action in Carandiru, he was sentenced to 624 years in prison, but, like the other policemen, he was annulled. Now, he awaits a retrial of the case.

To UOL , the lawyer Ieda Ribeiro de Souza, who works in defense of Letang, said that the request for her client to be kept in the military unit came from her. When he was detained in Tremembé, he says, he was threatened by other detainees.

He is part of the Carandiru case. If I put him inside a common prison with this accusation, it is to trace his death trajectory.
Ieda Ribeiro de Souza, lawyer

Published on November 30, 2020, the regulation signed by Judge Avivaldi Nogueira Junior, the TJM's internal affairs unit, establishes that former police officers should be transferred to common jails.

The Romão Gomes Military Prison, by express legal provision, is intended for prisoners who hold the status of military, whether on active duty, paid or unpaid reserve, or retired.
Avivaldi Nogueira Junior, corregidor of the TJM

Letang, who was laid off 12 years ago from the corporation, would not be entitled to the benefit. The regulation, however, establishes that ex-policemen are kept in the military unit "for humanitarian reasons or other circumstances that find legal support". It is with this prerogative that the lawyer supports Letang's stay in Romão Gomes.

Currently, she says, he works and attends law school. During his time in prison, he majored in theology and sociology. Regarding the possibility of Letang becoming a lawyer, Ieda points out that he chose the course "in the hope of understanding what is happening to him".

Other ex-PMs
According to the PM, Romão Gomes holds 310 prisoners. In response to the report on the 13th, the corporation reported that the site had 205 detainees, 35 of whom were former military police officers (about 17%).

The corporation also informed that "the transfer of the ex-police, according to the normative instruction of the Military Court of Justice, is the exclusive competence of the court, and the questions related to the matter should be directed to that body".

Unlike Letang, ex-PMs Victor Cristilder Silva Santos and Tiago Henklain were referred to CDP Pinheiros III. Both are accused of the death of 17 people in August 2015, in what became known as Osasco Slaughter and is the largest in the history of São Paulo.

Since November last year, six ex-police officers have been displaced from Romão Gomes to common prisons, informs SAP (Secretariat for Penitentiary Administration).

The lawyer Ieda Ribeiro de Souza, responsible for the defense of most of the PMs denounced by the deaths in the Massacre do Carandiru, shows opposition to the court's decision.

I cannot submit [ex-PMs] to places where they can cross paths with people they have arrested at any time. If there is a rebellion, they will be hit first.
Ieda Ribeiro de Souza, lawyer

Asked about Letang's case, the TJM did not respond until the publication of this report.

https://noticias.uol.com.br/cotidiano/ultimas-noticias/2021/01/29/juizes-militares-questionam-beneficio-a-ex-pm-condenado-por-matar-travestis.htm



Justice reduces sentence for transvestite killer
São Paulo, Sunday, October 9, 1994

MARCELO GODOY
OF LOCAL REPORTAGEM

The TJM (Military Court of Justice) of São Paulo reduced from 12 to 6 years the sentence of a former PM soldier accused of being a transvestite killer. The reason is that for the TJM be transvestite is a `` dangerous activity ".
The decision was called illegal and prejudiced by prosecutors, lawyers and transvestites. Just be appealed in higher courts.
Cyrene Carlos Letang da Silva was accused of killing with a shot in the nose and two in the coast the transvestite `` Vanessa "in January 93, in Ipiranga (south zone of SP).
Silva is accused of killing five other transvestites. These cases will be tried in the ordinary court, which ordered the arrest of the former soldier.
Silva was convicted last February by the 1st Instance of the TJM for qualified homicide.
In this case, the homicide would be qualified because the defendant would have acted without giving the victim a chance of defense, shooting by surprise.
When you qualify, you double the minimum penalty for murder (six years). For that, Silva was sentenced to 12 years in prison.
On the 29th, the 2nd Instance of the TJM, formed by three colonels of the PM and two civilians, decided by three votes to two that the crime was not qualified.
In the text of the decision, the TJM justifies the measure: `` The qualifier of the crime was removed because the activity the victim was engaged in was of high risk, extremely dangerous because, therefore, the surprise factor did not help him. "
For the lawyer Márcio Thomaz Bastos, the decision is prejudiced and absurd, as it says that every transvestite is obliged to know that he can be killed at any moment.
`` Transvestite now turned shooting duck target, "the prosecutor said Fernando Sergio Barone Nucci, coordinator of the Prosecutor's TJM. For him, the decision hurts the right to life of transvestites.
The professor emeritus of USP Law School Goffredo da Silva Telles Jr., 79, said he was surprised by the decision. `` The victim's activity (transvestite) cannot determine the quality of the defendant's act. "
The president of the São Paulo Transformers Association, Andrea de Maio, 44, said the decision is a prize for the criminal. "I feel like crying."
AIDS
Another point in the TJM's decision was also accused of being illegal.
By reducing the sentence of the ex-PM to six years, the TJM would be required by law to give him the right to serve his sentence semi-open - in an agricultural colony instead of a prison.
The TJM recognized this right, but established a condition: the defendant must prove that he is not a carrier of the HIV virus.
At the same time, the court did not accept as evidence a December 93 report from the PM hospital. The report says that Silva is not a carrier of the HIV virus.
`` Illegal, absurd, coercive and discriminatory. Suspecting that he has AIDS, the court denies the convict a right, "said prosecutor Stella Renata Kulhmann, who worked on the case. The prosecutor will appeal the decision.
Lawyer Bastos said the TJM decision could be appealed. to the STJ (Superior Court of Justice), for violating the Code of Criminal Procedure, and to the STF (Supreme Federal Court), for violating the Constitution.
`` Being a carrier of a virus is not a condition for anyone to receive the benefit of serving their sentence in a semi-open regime, "said federal deputy Hélio Bicudo (PT).
According to him, a government decree determines that, instead, the convict who has AIDS be released to die at home.

https://web.archive.org/web/20190427123754/https://www1.folha.uol.com.br/fsp/1994/10/09/cotidiano/27.html
