Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2023-11-05T08:27:48+00:00

====== Thea Cassidy (Ephrata - 22 Sep 2023) ======
Created Sunday 05 November 2023
@suicide


Theadora “Thea” Cassidy
18
2023_09_22_Thea-Cassidy.jpg
https://www.snyderfuneralhome.com/obituary/theadora-thea-cassidy/
22 Sep 2023
Ephrata
Pennsylvania
USA
suicide


> Theadora “Thea” Cassidy
> September 22, 2023
> 
> Theadora “Thea” Cassidy, filled out her first character sheet as Samuel Walter, a short, rotund, pre-maturely balding lawful-good human with high intelligence and wisdom stats. Her adventuring began with her best friend, mentor, and sister Ella. Along the way, she picked up brothers-in-arms Jeremiah, Simon, Jude and doggo Leo.
> 
> Thea turned the page on that character sheet and began to play as herself, a six-foot warrior goddess, adding strength and charisma beyond measure. Shifting her alignment towards chaotic-good, she deepened her love of history and the outdoors, leveled up her amazing miniature painting skills and added sketching, musical instrument repair, and foraging.
> 
> On Friday Sept 22, 2023, Thea found herself separated from her party and faced off against her lifelong enemy, Depression. She rolled a one and the dragon scored a critical, fatal hit. Respecting the die, Thea leaves behind her parents, Jere and Kelly Cassidy, her maternal grandparents Tom and Kathy Scanlon, her paternal grandparents Karen Drevyanko and John Cassidy, and a host of family and friends that will miss her deeply. Bonus XP will be awarded to her beloved River, Drew, and all that have been gifted the chance to accompany her during her all-too-short life.
> 
> A Celebration of Thea’s adventure will be held on Friday, September 29, 2023, at the Charles F. Snyder Jr. Funeral Home & Crematory, 3110 Lititz Pike, Lititz, PA 17543 at 7 PM. Her party will receive guests from 5 PM until the time of service. Interment will take place Friday morning at 11 AM, at the Woods Edge of Paxtang Cemetery, 490 N. Paxtang Ave., Harrisburg, PA.
> Memorial Donations can be made to Partners in Health pih.org or the Trevor project thetrevorproject.org


https://www.pennlive.com/news/2023/09/18-year-old-millersville-student-found-dead-in-parking-garage-coroner.html

https://www.snyderfuneralhome.com/obituary/theadora-thea-cassidy/




> This article mentions that 3 Trans kids there have died of suicide. One is named Thea Cassidy. One died in between being interviewed for the article and it's publication. I have reached out to Stephanie to ask for the other children's names, but will go find them if she doesn't feel comfortable disclosing that information.


> A mother's plea:
> We are failing our children to death [column]
> STEPHANIE CLAYTON-KULFAN | FOR LNP | LANCASTERONLINE
> “When your house is on fire, you get your kids out of the building and to somewhere safe before you start dousing the flames.”
> I say this to my husband as the Ferris wheel takes us up, around and down on the last night of the fair. Moments earlier we were gently rocking at the very top of the ride, our pretty little town spread out in front of us with its tiny old mountain and all the houses nestled below it and Main Street temporarily lit up with the neon of the rides and games and vendors.
> The adorable house we moved into last spring sat just a couple of blocks to our right. Just beyond that is the high school, where my husband and I slow-danced in the cafeteria as teenagers at post-prom and where my oldest child now attends school. I never expected to be back in this town, and I shocked myself with how happy we are to be back home — especially now with its rail trail and crepe cafe and community garden and incredible library. This is what my husband was seeing and feeling as we gently rocked, paused at the very top of the Ferris wheel, when he smiled and warmly said, “Just look at our little town.”
> But I couldn’t see it. My vision was clouded by my emotion. Below us, just a little way up the road, my oldest child was volunteering at a stand with their grandparents, collecting voter registrations. When we had stopped by earlier, a group of teenage boys had walked past and called my (sweet, intelligent, talented, nonbinary) teen a slur. I was horrified. My kid was unmoved. It was nothing they hadn’t heard a hundred times before.
> I saw one of their friends as we walked across the fairgrounds, and I asked them if this was something that happened frequently. They nodded. “People aren’t always too nice to people that look like us.” The mama bear inside of me stood up on her back haunches, got large and mean and menacing.
> Trans kids deserve to be safe
> “Just look at our little town.”
> I’m looking. And I want to see its charm. I want this to be a love letter to the town where I met the love of my life as a 16-year-old kid in art class, the town to which I returned more than 20 years later, to dig in deep with this community, plant a new garden where our old roots lie, raise half a dozen of the best kids ever with both our mothers right around the corner. This could be such a good place to settle in. And I’m sure for a lot of people, it is. But not for all of us.
> This town is failing its children to death.
> The day before we climbed onto that Ferris wheel, I had attended the funeral of a dear friend’s child — a bright and sweet 18-year-old named Thea Cassidy. It was the second funeral/vigil for an Ephrata teenager that I have sobbed my way through in less than a year. Both were transgender teens. Both were made to feel by many in our town as if it would be better without them here.
> It is hard to be a teenager. It is especially hard to be a teenager who is different from the majority of their peers. How much harder must it be to also have to listen as adults debate your very existence? We tell our children as they are growing up that adults are here to help them and guide them and protect them, but there is a community of kids who are hearing adults in politics and in churches and in their own neighborhoods advocate to legislatively annihilate them out of our society. So-called pro-lifers, so-called Christians, pray for the rights of a fetus while denying the humanity of my trans teenager. What must that do to these kids’ self-worth?
> We are seeing what it does to their self-worth. I am watching it happen in real time. I have lived back in my hometown for less than a year and a half. I have mourned the loss of two of this town’s children in that time. I cannot sit idly by and wait for a third one to die. I know this town’s residents have the capacity to care for one another. I want to believe it can be better. My husband is adamant that it can be. He is steady in this belief and in the belief that the kids of this town need adults like us to stay and fight for them.
> My motherly instincts scream that the house is on fire and I need to get my kids to safety, and he gently asks me to consider staying and helping to make this the safe place.
> The kids speak
> I can decide to stay. But it’s you, my neighbors, who will determine whether it’s safe. It will take you standing up for kids like mine; it will take you reexamining your opinions and beliefs; it will take you talking to your own children — especially if you are the parents of those kids who so casually called my kid a homophobic slur at the fair. It will take you questioning your church leaders and politicians who wish to engage you in a culture war; it will take you recognizing that they are only doing so to distract you enough to keep you from holding them accountable for anything.
> Despite the narrative certain people are pushing, the truth is that the way these kids live and identify has absolutely no effect on your life. But your words and actions could mean life or death for kids in your community.
> So let’s be the kind of adults who actually care, who actually protect children, who actually listen to them. And let’s start right now. Here is what the teenagers of this town and other Lancaster County communities want you to know:
> “Growing up queer, you’re surrounded by a culture that seems to believe your very existence is something controversial. When people in positions of power campaign on promises of making it harder to be who you are, when there are pieces in the news about ‘the trans debate,’ that really wears you down” — N., age 19.
> “Whenever people seem to really have a problem with me, it’s usually because I am wearing eyeliner or a skirt. It’s always about how I look, not what I do or say or how I treat people” — W., age 15.
> “I’m straight but one of my siblings and one of my best friends are not, and it literally doesn’t matter. We’re all just people. It’s not that hard to be a decent human being. The people who are bullying them are going out of their way. It’s such a stupid way to waste your time” — N., age 14.
> “A peer once cited a love of God and America as reasons why they could not ‘in good conscience’ call me by anything but my legal first name. A very supportive teacher at my school told me that they would love to step in to support me, but that because of the religious nature of the school, it would risk their job. It’s so strange how Christian schools tell you that the number one important thing is kindness, but when it comes to basic acceptance, there are so many ‘unlesses’ in small print that in practice, they end up discriminating against anyone who actually exhibits and stands up for that kindness” — R., age 17.
> “It's kinda like a catch-22, because in order for us to more accepted, there needs to be more of us — and in order for there to be more of us, we need to be more accepted” — J., age 16.
> “Trans people are not hurting anyone. By allowing them to be who they are, it is making them happy and not hurting anyone” — D., age 16.
> “It was so beautiful to see people’s kindness and to see them use Thea’s preferred name and be respectful, but it makes me really, really, really mad that someone had to die for people to finally be kind” — Kelly Cassidy, Thea’s mom, after her beloved child’s funeral.
> Epilogue
> It must be noted that in the two weeks between when I wrote this piece and when it went to print, yet another teen died — one who was quoted in this very column. I cannot overstate the urgency of this issue, or how very lethal the intolerance of others can be for these kids.
> If you are a teenager who is struggling right now, please know that the world is a much better place because you are in it. Please, stay. We need you here.
> If you are moved to make a difference for these kids, or to honor Thea Cassidy, please visit thetrevorproject.org and consider making a donation to support the important work of this suicide prevention and crisis intervention nonprofit for LGBTQ+ young people.
> Stephanie Clayton-Kulfan is a writer, artist and activist who resides in Ephrata with her husband, children and dog.
> GET HELP
> If you or someone you know is in crisis and needs immediate help, contact the following organizations:
> — National Suicide Prevention Lifeline, call or text 988 or chat at 988lifeline.org.
> — Those who are deaf or hard of hearing can contact the National Suicide Prevention Lifeline via TTY at 800-799-4889.
> —  Lancaster Crisis Intervention, 717-394-2631.

https://web.archive.org/web/20231105065923/https://lancasteronline.com/opinion/columnists/we-are-failing-our-children-to-death-column/article_613bfa0a-6e8c-11ee-a502-6bbd84e60c99.html

https://www.tiktok.com/@pghlesbianblog/video/7297769649284975915
