Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-27T20:35:52+01:00

====== Brenda Lee (Sao Paulo - 28 May 1996) ======
Created Sunday 27 September 2020
@violence





Brenda Lee
48
1996_05_28_Brenda-Lee.jpg
https://www.facebook.com/transpatologico/photos/a.104333609722846/115088181980722/?type=3&theater
28 May 1996
São Paulo
Brazil
shot
NOT ON TDOR LIST


Brenda Lee - a life to remember

Brenda Lee and her "Palace of princesses": the transvestite who inaugurated the support service for transvestites expelled from home and HIV

Brenda Lee was born Cicero Caetano Leonardo, in bodocó, pernambuco, on January 10, 1948. At Age 14 was living in the neighborhood of the bladder, in the capital of são Popular, soon became known. First by caetana. Brenda Lee came after.

Since she didn't feel good about prostitution, he was committed to having another form of income. In 1984 he acquired the property in major diogo street, 779 and made a pension.

" in addition to this property, had a gas station or " mechanic ". he loved cars and always white; and in front of the left (which in reality was now already four floors of so much invent space, was the beauty salon that transvestites Used)."

In this property Brenda welcomed the young transvestites expelled from their families, because of the travestilidade - a practice that resists until today. After the series of deaths of transvestites in the region of Avenida Indianapolis and farm flora, in the southern area of São Paulo, in 1985, more transvestites This is how the palace of princesses came up, spontaneously.

Brenda took care of young women with affection and affection - "had a mother's affection for them", says a "really was a mother", says a transvestite who lived in the palace during her adolescence and who today lives and works in Paris.

Lee has made possible the migration of various transvestites to Europe in search of better living and income conditions. Loyal to the same travel and tourism agency, the employee who always served her still has a lot of affection from this conviviality, which made them great friends

Aids was already strong, bringing along the explosion of prejudice and irresponsible. In The Press, inconsequential journalists nicknamed it " gay cancer " and " gay plague ".

The first sick people faced, in addition to the disease, the "social death". transformed into outcasts, the possibility of conviviality, the enjoyment of public spaces, affection and care.

There was still no program for the supply of remedies or support programs - these were conquistos of the struggle in the face of the

Doctors knew nothing or very little about that mysterious disease and so full of fears and underground ghosts.

Gays and transvestites, the first known patients, saw themselves from one hour to another thrown into limbo, agigantado the social and family rejection that commonly was (and still is) destined.

Some transvestites friends of Brenda started showing up sick. She took them in. Others came. She welcomed it equally.

Got in touch with the Emilio Ribas hospital. Those who needed were hospitalized. Those who had to continue the treatment " at home ", had no " home " to go, no relatives to take care of them.

They were the "social patients" - those who needed treatment, but not admission. They needed balanced food, medicines, care, affection, reception.

Just what the family members had no desire to provide them. Interest was limited to their heritage, if they existed.

Brenda kept them all as she could. If need, in your own bed. Gave them villa, medicine, care, affection. At your expense.

The left to get help everywhere. And found a lot. Anonymous or not, numerous were the people who came together to support her in her social work. From Transvestites in Rome to tv show presenters in Brazil, going through doctors, spiritualists, ordinary people.

In the search for resources to improve reception conditions, he participated in television programs, lectures, events at show houses. Everything that in your understanding could reverse in resources for the sick you welcomed. In some have been cheated and deceived - there are always those who take advantage of the altruism and gullibility of

According to trevisan, Brenda's house " has become almost an extension of the hospital and a fundamental entity for the state health network in the aids sector. Brazil has managed to set up an aids facing network considered modeling by the world health organization. And this was due, good or bad, to the mobilization of isolated gays or in LGBT trend groups who fought, protested, helped organize and put their hands in the mass " (dissolute in paradise, p. 369 of the 3th Edition).

" who wouldn't be in love with Brenda?"-say the people who met her " was like a mother ". " the good angel of aids ". " she was a girl, had dreams of a girl ".

The Famous Palace of princesses ended up becoming known as Brenda Lee support house ". it was the year 1986.

In 1988 Brenda Signed an agreement with the secretary of state of health of the state of São Paulo for the reception and care of HIV, regardless of gender, sex, sexual orientation or any other

In 1992 the Brenda Lee support house is formal and legally formed. Her foundation record is recorded in the 5th office of the register of titles and documents of São Paulo, under no. 12.864. Brenda appears as its president for life.

For more than ten years Brenda was in charge of this spontaneous, spontaneous, pioneer social work. Fruit of his personal understanding of the need for commitment to the collective; fraternity and generosity as values to be practiced daily.

On May 28, 1996, however, Brenda was found dead, murdered with shots in the mouth and chest, inside a van, located in a plot of land in the capital of São Paulo.

An employee of the house adulterara a check issued by Brenda, turning the value of $ 150,00 into $ 2.950,00. she registered crime report in the 5th District (Aclimação), indicating her suspect.

After receiving a call, Lee went to the meeting marked by the author of the call, in order to solve the case of the check - whose coverage did not She wasn't seen alive anymore.

The property where the palace of princesses was formed and then the support house was purchased from its relatives, after her death, by Brenda Lee, civil society, in February 2000, through a particular transfer instrument Of Hereditary rights and settlement in payment. The Full Grant of the price required by his heirs consanguineous took place in 2002, through the collaboration "of the community, friends and public body", according to information on the house page

After his death, the institution was managed by an executive board, formed by 5 members, in collaboration with a 15. Tax Council and a 3 Advisory Board.

Residents surrounding the house reported, on the occasion of her death, that Brenda did not care only about " Aidéticos " or transvestites, " but with all needy people in the neighborhood."

Robson Alves Martins, then 22 years old (and currently a member of the community in honor of Brenda on orkut), declared that lee did not walk away from the house for more than two hours and "has always been a dedicated person".

When she was murdered, she was vice-President of the house the medical doctor of Emilio Ribas, rogério At his wake he declared to the journalist laërtius arruda:

" it was 10 years of full dedication. Brenda has always been a great leader."

The present body mass was celebrated by Father Julio Lancelotti, from the pastoral of the minor, who came representing the Cardinal Archbishop of São Paulo, Don Paul Evaristo Arns. Here's your testimony on the occasion:

" she was a special person and we lost a symbol of the fight against aids. We need to cling to the beauty and claw of everything she left to keep this memory."

His death found the house with between 27 and 30 patients, all with total medical and social assistance. About a hundred people attended his wake, held in the institution he created.

Although he also found those who betray their trust and abuses of their gullibility, his work became a reference in the care of HIV-aids carriers, being recognized internationally and internationally. Some people report the fact that Brenda commented that she was nominated for the Nobel Peace prize.

A documentary film was produced in 1988, directed by Pierre-Alain Meier and Matthias Kälin, addressing the life of Brenda Lee and four other transvestites - Thelma Lipp, Countess de nostromundo, Andréia, and Claudia wonder. It's called pain of love.

A prize in human rights was established with his name in Brazil.

Brenda Lee, was and remains a transvestite, a human being, a fighter ahead of her time, fighting all forms of prejudice that even today destroy the lives of transvestites and transvestites.

Brenda Lee ( Bodocó , 10 of January of 1948 - São Paulo , 28 of May of 1996 ) was an activist transsexual Brazilian of LGBT rights . Brenda was considered the "guardian angel of transvestites" and aimed to help everyone, sick or not, who were discriminated against by society.

His work became a reference and a milestone, so in 21 of October of 2008 was instituted the "Prize Brenda Lee" awarded every five years to seven categories on the occasion of the celebrations of World Day to Combat AIDS and birthday STD State Program / AIDS in the State of São Paulo. [ 1 ]


Index
1	Early years
2	Militancy
3	Death
4	Google Doodle Celebration
5	References
6	External links
Early years 
Born as Cícero Caetano Leonardo in the interior of Pernambuco , [ 2 ] Brenda was still very effeminate in her childhood, which from an early age made her a target of prejudice. Initially she adopted the social name of Caetana , but when she settled in São Paulo she chose the name that would make her known: Brenda Lee . [ 2 ]

Militancy 
Brenda arrived in São Paulo at the age of fourteen and became a well-known and celebrated figure in the Bixiga neighborhood . He bought a house in this neighborhood and welcomed the first HIV carrier in 1984 at a time when a lot of misinformation and prejudice about AIDS prevailed , when even family members rejected those who suffered from this disease and there was no infrastructure to accommodate those who were discharged from the hospital and did not. had a place to live.

The «Casa de Apoio Brenda Lee», also known as «Palácio das Princesas», was formally established in 1988 to house homosexual people and people with HIV rejected by relatives and also with the objective of providing medical, social, moral and material assistance, whether they were transvestites or not. [ 3 ] [ 4 ] The house, which was on 779 Major Diogo Street, started with three patients in the year of its purchase.

In 1988, Swiss filmmaker Pierre-Alain Meier directed the documentary film entitled Dores de Amor , in which he exposed the naked and raw lives of four transgender women . In addition to Brenda herself, there were Andréa de Mayo , Cláudia Wonder , Condessa Mônica and Thelma Lipp .

Death 
On 28 of May of 1996 , Brenda was brutally murdered with a shot in the mouth and another in the chest and his body was later found in a van in a wasteland. [ 3 ] His body mass present - performed by Father Júlio Lancellotti , representing Cardinal Dom Paulo Evaristo Arns - was said at the headquarters of the support house, at Rua Major Diogo, in Bela Vista . [ 3 ]

https://www.facebook.com/transpatologico/photos/a.104333609722846/115088181980722/?type=3&theater

https://folhanobre.com.br/2023/07/03/militante-lgbtqia-brenda-lee-e-tema-de-musical-em-sao-paulo/372968/

https://pt.wikipedia.org/wiki/Brenda_Lee

http://agenciaaids.com.br/site/noticia.asp?id=14853 [BROKEN LINK]

https://www.google.com/doodles/celebrating-brenda-lee

https://memoriamhb.blogspot.com/2009/11/brenda-lee-e-o-seu-palacio-das.html
