Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-27T20:48:19+01:00

====== Fransua Pinchi Vasquez (Tarapoto  - Sep 1989) ======
Created Sunday 27 September 2020





Fransuá Pinchi Vasquez
1989_09_xx_Fransua-Pinchi-Vasquez.jpg
https://elpais.com/elpais/2016/04/01/planeta_futuro/1459513097_580273.html
Sep 1989
Tarapoto
San Martín
Peru
murdered
NOT ON TDOR LIST


#Fornotforget are two in the afternoon of a day any of the early s in the Peruvian city of tarapoto. Church bells sound seven times and, even though there are still a few hours left for the beginning of the curfew, the streets are suddenly empty. Someone is about to die, it's the sign that the murderers will act. For nearly 20 years, Peru lived plunged into the darkness of a cruel, long and ruthless war. The clashes between the army and the bright and mrta trail guerrillas left over 70.000 dead. Soldiers, revolutionaries, peasants... innocent, whole families, children of the people, honest men, humble workers... and homosexuals.

The terrorist groups followed the maoist theories on the unique thought and total control of the activities carried out by the people of their areas of influence, and were seen with the gift of deciding on good and evil, about the moral and the right thing. In the decades of the eighties and ninety, the city of tarapoto, gate of the Peruvian Amazon, was the scenario of clashes between the mrta (Revolutionary Movement Tupac Amaru) and the army. Its inhabitants suffered violence from both sides, curfews, kidnappings, murders.

Within his strategy plan the mrta launched the so-called social cleansing. Homosexuals, drug addicts and thugs went on to become their goal by calling them "the undesirables". this social cleaning was put into practice by the emerretistas who formed the North-East front in the city of tarapoto. In those years, there were only two or three homosexuals in the city. It Now Counts Nativity Vázquez Lorenzo, a hairdresser known in the homosexual field of tarapoto. "people with different sexual orientations are the ones who have suffered the most here, but also depended on their conduct", he claims. Transvestites and sex workers were the most punished groups. "they had to go out and sell their business, leave it all".

Nativity Remember that at the disco las gardenias organized the miss gay contest in a clandestine way. "it was not open to the public, could not, were hidden meetings". shortly after, on may 31, 1989 at that same bar, one of the 
most impact crimes occurred: the murder of eight transvestites and Gays accused by the emerretistas of being "social scourges used to corrupt youth". Nativity and lucho agree that among the victims there was nothing more than criminals, no homosexual. "what was spread was something else, maybe he was born from the press". in memory of this crime, on may 31 was declared in Peru the national day to fight violence and hate crimes towards lesbians, trans, Gay and bisexual.

Terrorists came down from the jungle or appeared out of nowhere. Many of them lived in the city as one more neighbor, ajusticiaban or kidnapped and disappeared again. The bodies without life were abandoned in cemeteries or on the street, as the case of a young homosexual who was found dead in February 1989 with a sign that prayed "so the fags die". it was frequent to see bodies rio below Dragged by the stream. The Army was feared the same, anyone who was suspicious could disappear forever. "the armed struggle was necessary, managed to put this land on the map" declares Sistero García Torres, by then known as commander Ricardo. He was head of the North-East front of the jungle, one of the most active battalions of the mrta, between 1987 and 1992.

The Mrta was welcomed in a principle of good liking for the population. His goal was to overthrow the bourgeois and capitalist government through the armed guerrilla struggle. The Triumph of neighboring revolutions, from Cuba to Nicaragua, grew hopes in a population drowned by social differences. Social cleaning was well seen by the majority of citizens. "a sector of the villagers accepted as timely these executions; even more, some population cores came to demand the presence of the subversives to perform cleaning campaigns" is indicated in the report that development the trc, commission of truth and reconciliation.

For Sistero there was no alignment of the mrta in that sense, and qualifies social cleansing as a terrible mistake of a military command of the area that was moved and expelled. Sistero was replaced by his superiors and left the mrta with 120 of his men. Meanwhile, his former companions ordered his capture. The Army's intervention saved him and marked the end of the revolutionary movement. Commander Ricardo was welcomed to the law of repentance after three years in jail and today is a free citizen. The support of the population disappeared long before, by realizing the abuses committed by the guerrillas: assaults, request for quotas, control of drug trafficking...
The modus operandi of terrorists was to send an anonymous letter to those " undesirable " with which they invited the receiver to leave the area or " regenerate ". if not fulfilled would be executed. Lucho González remembers the case of his friend Solomon, one of the first victims of the LGBT collective. "he was killed hanged on the airport track", he regrets.

Fransuá ran a well-known beauty salon in tarapoto and lived naturally his transgender condition. His relatives warned him of the danger he was running, but she was quiet. " why are they going to kill me if i haven't done anything and also give them silver, clothes and food?", I used to say. She was killed from a shot in the head an afternoon of September 1989. Her Brother Roger Pinchi Vasquez counts, moved, the story of the suffering of his family. Roger was kidnapped for eight days, beaten and raped until someone pulled out of his mistake to the terrorists, who had confused him with his sister. His wife was also attacked by the same, accused of "snitch". they left her on the brink of death. While Roger moved to a lima hospital to his wife, fransuá was killed.

Roger confesses that he married to hide his homosexual status, and now he works in his own hairdresser while he litigate with the government to return the teacher square he left when he fled all the horror he had lived. He claims he recently learned that his sister's killer was a cousin brother emerretista who couldn't tolerate fransuá's shame in the family.
Simon's mother had a bar in a part of the family house. He was a teenager at the time and his ways made clear to where his sexuality had been developed. He always caught the attention that the emerretistas did not mess with him, but more still was shocked by the continued visits of the terrorists to his mother's bar. One night his older sister, student of medicine with whom he shared room, appeared with bloody clothes and very agitated. In Exchange for his silence, he declared to Simon that he was with the guerrillas. She shared her ideals and healed her wounds. They just kidnapped and quartered with a mechanical saw to a suspect to collaborate with the military.

That night Simon understood that his sister was one of them. All the fear that professed to the guerrillas, the feeling of protection that paralysed him by going out to the street, the embarrassment that made his legs fly to get home when the time of the curfew was approaching... all those ghosts They reincarnated in the person I wanted most. Simon soon understood that he was not only his sister, he was his angel of the guard.

The story of Simon goes beyond in the strict sense of expression. His mother closed the bar and he is now an adult man with an important position in the structure of the city of tarapoto. Half embarrassed confesses that in the house of his mother, his own family and friends who have gone through there have noticed presences, images and conversations of the guerrillas who found a safe shelter at that bar and that all later suffered a violent death.

Among the missing who left the Peruvian conflict there are also terrorists who never appeared neither alive nor dead. It is frequent to hear from a tarapoto neighbor the method used by the military to make terrorists disappear. After torturing them, they would throw them to death, put them in a sack and then a helicopter let them fall in the middle of the jungle.

Tarapoto is today a tolerant city with the homosexual community. There are still reticence, like the commitment of the aspiring to the city mayor in the 2014 elections Ruben Del Aguila of the new amazon political movement to lower the number of homosexuals. Society has been evolving in the way to tolerate LGBT thanks to the awareness work of organizations like disam among many others. Today they organize gay futsal championships, gay beauty contests, and it's not strange to see a same sex couple kissing or dancing in a disco.

The Road was not simple. The different LGBT associations bet on educating the population, stop hiding. By the year 2000 they decided to participate in the contest of the parade of floats organized on the occasion of the anniversary of the tarapoto foundation. The Chamber of commerce and the lions club, both organizers of the event, put the cry in the sky. After his resignation, the municipality took over the organization. The float was accompanied by more than a hundred homosexuals dressed for the occasion and received the approval and applause of the population. They didn't win the contest but that day took a big step: they showed up to society as they are.


The undesirables of Tarapoto
Peru lived in war for more than 20 years. One of the most persecuted groups was that of homosexuals

Antonio Lopez
It's two in the afternoon on any given day in the early 1990s in the Peruvian city of Tarapoto . The church bells ring seven times and, despite the fact that there are still a few hours to go before the curfew, the streets are suddenly empty. Someone is about to die, it is the signal that the murderers are going to act.

For almost 20 years, Peru lived in the darkness of a cruel, long and merciless war. The clashes between the army and the Shining Path and MRTA guerrillas left more than 70,000 dead . Soldiers, revolutionaries, peasants ... Innocents, entire families, children of the people, honest men, humble workers ... and homosexuals. The Lima Homosexual Movement ( MHOL ) estimates that more than 500 people were murdered by both sides for their sexual condition.

Terrorist groups followed Maoist theories about single thinking and total control of the activities carried out by the inhabitants of their areas of influence, and they were given the gift of deciding on good and evil, on morality and right. In the eighties and nineties, the city of Tarapoto, the gateway to the Peruvian Amazon, was the scene of clashes between the MRTA ( Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement) and the army. Its inhabitants suffered violence from both sides, curfews, kidnappings, murders.

Within its strategy plan, the MRTA launched the so-called social cleansing. Homosexuals, drug addicts and criminals became their target, calling them "The Undesirables." This social cleansing was put into practice by the emerretistas who formed the Northeast front in the city of Tarapoto. In those years, only two or three homosexuals were left in the city. Natividad Vázquez Lorenzo, a hairdresser known in the homosexual sphere from Tarapoto, tells it now. "People with different sexual orientations are the ones who have suffered the most here, but it also depended on their behavior," he says. Transvestites and sex workers were the most punished groups. "They had to go out and sell their businesses, abandon everything."

Natividad remembers that at the Las Gardenias nightclub they organized the Miss gay contest clandestinely. "It was not open to the public, you couldn't, they were hidden meetings." Shortly afterwards, on May 31, 1989, in that same bar, one of the crimes with the greatest repercussions occurred: the murder of eight transvestites and gays accused by the MRTA members of being "social scourges used to corrupt youth. Natividad and Lucho agree that the victims included nothing but criminals, no homosexuals. "What was disseminated was something else, perhaps it was born from the press." In memory of this crime, on May 31, Peru was declared the National Day for the Fight against Violence and Hate Crimes against Lesbians, Trans, Gays and Bisexuals.

Roger confesses that he married to hide his homosexual status

Terrorists came down from the jungle or appeared out of nowhere. Many of them lived in the city as just another neighbor, executed or kidnapped and disappeared again. Lifeless bodies were abandoned in cemeteries or on the street, as in the case of a young homosexual man who was found dead in February 1989 with a sign that read “this is how fags die.” It was common to see bodies dragged down the river by the The army was feared the same, anyone who was suspected could disappear forever. "The armed struggle was necessary, it managed to put this land on the map," says Sistero García Torres, then known as Commander Ricardo. He was head of the Northeast Jungle Front, one of the most active battalions of the MRTA, between 1987 and 1992.

The MRTA was initially welcomed by the population. Its objective was to overthrow the bourgeois and capitalist government through armed guerrilla warfare. The triumph of neighboring revolutions, from Cuba to Nicaragua, raised hopes in a population drowned by social differences. Social cleanliness was well seen by most citizens. “A sector of the settlers accepted these executions as opportune; moreover, some population groups came to demand the presence of the subversives to carry out cleaning campaigns ”, it is indicated in the report developed by the CVR , the Truth and Reconciliation Commission.

For Sistero there was no alignment of the MRTA in that sense, and qualifies the social cleansing as a terrible mistake by a military command in the area that was transferred and expelled. Sistero was replaced by his superiors and left the MRTA along with 120 of his men. Meanwhile, his former companions ordered his capture. The army's intervention saved him and marked the end of the revolutionary movement. Commander Ricardo accepted the repentance law after three years in prison and today he is a free citizen. The support of the population disappeared long before, when they realized the abuses committed by the guerrillas: assaults, request for quotas, control of drug trafficking ...

The modus operandi of the terrorists consisted of sending an anonymous letter to those "undesirables" with which they invited the recipient to leave the area or "regenerate." If he did not comply, he would be executed. Lucho González remembers the case of his friend Salomón, one of the the first victims of the LGTB collective. "They killed him by hanging on the airport runway," he laments.

Fransua, shot in the head in 1989.
Fransua, killed by a shot in the head in 1989. Family archive
Fransuá ran a well-known beauty salon in Tarapoto and lived her transsexual condition naturally. Her relatives warned her of the danger she was in, but she was calm. "Why are they going to kill me if I have not done anything and also give them money, clothes and food?", He used to say. She was shot to the head one afternoon in September 1989. Her brother Roger Pinchi Vásquez tells, moved, the story of his family's suffering. Roger was kidnapped for eight days, beaten and raped until someone pulled the terrorists out of their mistake, who had mistaken her for her sister. His wife was also attacked by them, accused of being a "snitch." They left her on the brink of death. While Roger was transferring his wife to a hospital in Lima, Fransuá was murdered.

Roger confesses that he married to hide his homosexual status, and now works in his own hairdresser while he is fighting with the Government to give him back the teaching position that he left when he fled from all the horror he had experienced. He assures that he recently learned that the murderer of his sister was a first cousin of the MRA who could not tolerate Fransuá's shame in the family.

Simon's mother had a bar in one part of the family home. He was a teenager at the time and his manner made it clear where his sexuality had developed. He was always struck by the fact that the MRTA members did not interfere with him, but he was even more surprised by the continuous visits of the terrorists to his mother's bar. One night his older sister, a medical student with whom he shared a room, appeared with bloody clothes and very agitated. In exchange for her silence, she declared to Simón that she was with the guerrillas. She shared his ideals and healed their wounds. They had just kidnapped and dismembered with a chainsaw a suspected of collaborating with the military.

That night, Simon realized that his sister was one of them. All the fear he professed towards the guerrillas, the feeling of helplessness that paralyzed him when he went out into the street, the confusion that caused his legs to fly to get home when curfew time approached ... All those ghosts were they reincarnated in the person he loved the most. Simon soon understood that she was not only his sister, she was his guardian angel.

More than 500 people were murdered between both sides for their sexual condition

The story of Simon goes further in the strict sense of the term. His mother closed the bar and he is now a grown man with an important position in the organization chart of the city of Tarapoto. Half ashamed, he confesses that in his mother's house, his own family and friends who have passed through there have noticed the presences, images and conversations of the guerrillas who found a safe refuge in that bar and that all later suffered a violent death.

Among the disappeared left by the Peruvian conflict there are also terrorists who never appeared alive or dead. It is common to hear someone from Tarapoto tell about the method used by the military to make terrorists disappear . After torturing them, they were wounded with machetes, they were put in a sack and then a helicopter dropped them in the middle of the jungle.

Tarapoto is today a tolerant city with the homosexual community. There are still reluctance, such as the commitment of the candidate for mayor of the city in the 2014 elections Rubén del Águila of the Nueva Amazonía Political Movement to reduce the number of homosexuals. Society has evolved in the way of tolerating LGTBs thanks to the awareness-raising work of organizations such as DISAM among many others. Today there are gay futsal championships, gay beauty contests, and it is not uncommon to see a same-sex couple kissing or dancing in a disco.

The road was not easy. The different LGTB associations opted to educate the population, stop hiding. Towards the year 2000 they decided to participate in the float parade contest organized on the occasion of the anniversary of the founding of Tarapoto. The chamber of commerce and the Lions Club, both organizers of the event, shouted to the sky. After his resignation, the municipality took over the organization. The float came out accompanied by more than a hundred homosexuals dressed for the occasion and received the approval and applause of the population. They did not win the contest but that day they took a big step: they showed themselves to society as they are.


https://conexionvida.net.pe/2019/05/31/crimendeodio/

https://elpais.com/elpais/2016/04/01/planeta_futuro/1459513097_580273.html

https://elcomercio.pe/peru/documental-expone-caceria-homosexuales-sl-mrta-144063-noticia/

https://www.facebook.com/organizacionfeministatrans/photos/a.1542104382764090/1869979319976593/?type=3&theater
