Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-30T20:17:16+01:00

====== Name Unknown (x8) (Tarapoto - 31 May 1989) ======
Created Wednesday 30 September 2020
@violence



Name Unknown (x8)
31 May 1989
Tarapoto
Peru
shot

//Note: we'll probably never know which of them were trans. Possibly include in the report for Fransuá Pinchi Vasquez.//

[date confirmed via one of the sources for the report on Fransuá Pinchi Vasquez:]

//Natividad remembers that at the Las Gardenias nightclub they organized the Miss gay contest clandestinely. "It was not open to the public, you couldn't, they were hidden meetings." Shortly afterwards, on May 31, 1989, in that same bar, one of the crimes with the greatest repercussions occurred: the murder of eight transvestites and gays accused by the MRTA members of being "social scourges used to corrupt youth. Natividad and Lucho agree that the victims included nothing but criminals, no homosexuals. "What was disseminated was something else, perhaps it was born from the press." //**In memory of this crime, on May 31, Peru was declared the National Day for the Fight against Violence and Hate Crimes against Lesbians, Trans, Gays and Bisexuals.**


**September 1988 [correction: reading the text & cross-referencing this should be May 1989]: The MRTA machine-gunned eight transvestites in Tarapoto**

Under the mission of "social cleansing", they committed dozens of murders.
Ramiro Sánchez did not know how to read or write. When messages arrived at his home that said "The people reject you. Fags must die" and "What are you doing? You must leave this city now”, it was impossible for him to identify the warnings.

One morning in February 1989, during a strike in Tarapoto in which Ramiro headed a common pot at the picket line that blocked the entrance to the airport, six terrorists grabbed him by the neck. While he was imprisoned, those who submitted him asked the people: "What do we do to him? He is a bad element. "And the people responded:" Let it disappear! "An accurate bullet ended his life.

The Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA) had already expressed its rejection of the homosexual community in Tarapoto and openly manifested its proposal for "social cleansing." It was said that there was no third warning for members of the gay community.

Death in Las Gardenias

The murder of Ramiro Sánchez marked the beginning of a bloody year for the gay community of Tarapoto. Five [Three] months after his death, another episode - recorded in the report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (CVR) - marked history.

Six members of the subversive group entered the Las Gardenias nightclub. There, they apprehended eight people - most of them transvestites - and murdered them in front of the entire neighborhood. Their massacred bodies were left in the asphalt.


The eight people killed in Tarapoto were César Marcelino Carvajal, Max Pérez Velásquez, Luis Mogollón, Alberto Chong Rojas, Rafael Gonzales, Carlos Piedra, Raúl Chumbe Rodríguez and Jhony Achuy. The case is known as " The Night of the Gardenias " and has been included in the final report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (2003) and in the permanent exhibition of the Place of Memory, Tolerance and Social Inclusion (2013 ).


Night of the Gardenias: the LGBT massacre in a Peruvian nightclub
By: Present Agency
Are you here:
May 31 2019
PERU VIOLENCES
hate crimes
By Verónica Ferrari 

Between 1980 and 2000, Peru was submerged in a civil war that years later would be called an internal armed conflict by the Truth and Reconciliation Commission. A balance of almost 70 thousand people dead and missing was the product of the confrontation between the Armed Forces and the Shining Path subversive groups, and to a lesser extent, the Túpac Amaru Revolutionary Movement (MRTA). Among those dead were LGTBI citizens affected by the unreasonableness of a confrontation that would also cost their lives in the search to create a new society, a society without inequality or poverty, but also without homosexuals.

On May 31, 1989, that threat would come true. An armed contingent of the MRTA entered the Las Gardenias nightclub in the city of Tarapoto (department of San Martín), in the Peruvian jungle, took eight gays and trans men out of the interior and shot them dead in the street. Days later, in their unofficial communication organ, the newspaper Cambio , they would assume their authorship under the slogan of cleaning up society, a policy of extermination where the existence of social ills (lgtbi, criminals, snitches, prostitutes) was no longer thought to be tolerated. , drug addicts) that corrupted the youth in this new and popular democracy that they would impose.


The Night of the Gardenias
The eight people killed in Tarapoto were César Marcelino Carvajal, Max Pérez Velásquez, Luis Mogollón, Alberto Chong Rojas, Rafael Gonzales, Carlos Piedra, Raúl Chumbe Rodríguez and Jhony Achuy. The case is known as " The Night of the Gardenias " and has been included in the final report of the Truth and Reconciliation Commission (2003) and in the permanent exhibition of the Place of Memory, Tolerance and Social Inclusion (2013 ).

Faced with a State that forgets some of its dead, civil organizations would take this task and make it their own. In 2003, the Lima Homosexual Movement presented the " LGBT Memory Altarpiece " where they recorded more than 100 names of those killed by hatred from 1989 to 2003, in a long work of memory recovery. It was thanks to this work that the team drafting the final report the Truth Commission would include the Las Gardenias case, being the first time in history that a Commission of this type includes the systematic persecution of LGTBI people in a civil conflict.


Quipu of Memory 
In 2004, the articulation of lgtbi organizations decided to create the "National Day to Fight Violence and Hate Crimes Against Lesbians, Trans, Gays and Bisexuals", and the Quipu de la Memoria was presented , where the names were recorded. of all those who had been victims of violence because of their sexual orientation and gender identity. A Pilgrimage was also held at night, where coffins were loaded and the city was toured. Since 2014, the day has been commemorated on the Champ de Mars in front of the sculpture " The Crying Eye ", made in memory of all the victims of the war between subversive groups and the State.


In June 2018, the Ministry of Justice held an act of symbolic recognition of the LGTBI population of Tarapoto. A commemorative plaque was placed with a message from the Government to the community: “In memory of the victims of terrorism due to their sexual orientation during the period of violence from 1980 to 2000 in the communities of the Tarapoto district, for whom we renew the commitment to dignify their memories to heal the wounds and achieve national reconciliation ”.

Terrorist groups were defeated, but homophobia and transphobia have not yet. The search for justice and reparation continues for the Peruvian LGTBI population, who continuously see how all the bills they present to protect their lives are archived. The home and school become the first place where the feeling of exclusion, silence and violence towards their lives is experienced. A feeling that lasts and that affects LGTBI people at different levels, impacting their self-esteem and even causing their death, by their own hand or by someone else's hand. So that it is not repeated, they continue to resist.



https://agenciapresentes.org/2019/05/31/noche-de-las-gardenias-la-masacre-a-lgbt-en-una-discoteca-peruana/

https://lucidez.pe/se-cumplen-30-anos-del-asesinato-a-8-personas-homosexuales-por-parte-del-mrta-en-tarapoto/

https://conexionvida.net.pe/2019/05/31/crimendeodio/

https://www-prensaaldia.blogspot.com/2016/06/setiembre-1988-el-mrta-ametrallo-ocho.html

https://idehpucp.pucp.edu.pe/analisis/31-de-mayo-recordando-los-crimenes-de-odio-durante-el-conflicto-armado-por-ariana-jauregui/

https://twitter.com/GonzaloRamirezT/status/1134465846582095872

https://twitter.com/AlbertoBelaunde/status/1134472151971577856

https://twitter.com/AlbertoBelaunde/status/1134472142328946695
