Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-08-04T13:10:54+01:00

====== Alma Clara Solano (Buenos Aires - 27 Sep 2018) ======
Created Tuesday 04 August 2020
@uncategorised



Alma Clara Solano
42
http://agenciapresentes.org/2018/10/01/investigan-la-muerte-de-una-mujer-trans-atropellada-en-la-ruta-4/
27 Sep 2018
Esteban Echeverría
Buenos Aires
Argentina
run over

Alma Clara Solano, a 42-year-old trans woman, was in a prostitution situation and was rammed by a bus line 338 (La Costera) on Thursday night at the intersection of Route 4 with Venus, in Esteban Echeverría (province of Buenos Aires). The Investigation Fiscal Unit of this town is responsible for the cause due to the circumstances of this death, as confirmed to Presentes from the General Prosecutor's Office Lomas de Zamora.

A version that witnesses gave to the local newspaper Diario Sur , says that they had tried to assault it and that Alma crossed running to escape from two men, when a collective ran over her. It happened on Route 4, also known as Camino de Cintura, an area where trans and transvestites have been for many years, mostly expelled from the labor market and the education system, survive by practicing prostitution, along with cis sex workers.

At nine o'clock on Thursday, September 27, the alert came for a seriously injured woman on the route to the police station 3 of April 9. The excerpt from the police says that when the mobile arrived at the place, “what he sees is a transvestite person. Call the ambulance. The driver, in his statement, said he was driving when a person came running from the sidewalk. That he wanted to dodge it but couldn't.

Alma arrived with severe trauma to the hospital and died hours later. The cause that had started as guilty injuries became known as wrongful death.

At 42, she was a survivor in a country where the average life of transvestites and transvestites is around 35 years. He was born in Santa Anita, department of Concepción del Uruguay (province of Entre Ríos). One of her nieces, Carla Solano, reminded Presentes that for years, "much of the family despised her for her gender identity." Until this afternoon, his body was still in the morgue, waiting for a cousin to withdraw it.

“He was cheerful, humble, good person, but in turn with a very strong character. She just wanted to be accepted as she wanted to be, ”said Carla.

“She had planned to finish working this year and return to Entre Ríos,” said Vicky Izquierdo, coordinator of the Otrans organization in the province of Buenos Aires and a member of the Trans and Travesti Argentina Federal Call. The activist says that she was recently in that area, that she has a history of violence.

Area denounced for bribes and police exploitation
For years, women, trans and transvestites in prostitution and sex workers have denounced and continue to denounce the request for police bribes,  extortion and bribes  in exchange for "protection", as well as all kinds of violent situations .

In June 2017, a federal judge ordered the arrest of seven police officers from Buenos Aires, including an inspector commissioner and the head of a Lavallol police station, accused of running a prostitution network of 150 women in the area.

“The girls on Route 4 (Waist Road) have problems with the police. That's why this catches my attention. The police often order to beat or steal those who do not want to negotiate with them. A little more than a month ago, a girl who was working, two guys hired the service and ended up hitting it and setting it on fire. And there are others who had to withdraw from the area tight by the police, ”says Vicky Izquierdo. And he says Clara never wanted to negotiate.

Alma Solano had recently approached militancy. "He approached our organization a few months ago, in the 9 de Abril neighborhood," Tango Dotti, a reference for the Workers' Pole in the southern zone, told Presentes. “The idea was to start meeting with other trans partners from the southern zone and take the campaign for the trans labor quota. She argued that this was the only option she had for not having to continue prostitution, since trans people are outside the labor market, ”Dotti said.

In the province of Buenos Aires, the Trans Diana Sacayán Transvestite Labor Quota law was passed by the legislature more than 3 years ago, in September 2015, but today the governor María Eugenia Vidal did not regulate it. At the National Congress, in August of this year, the National Front for the Law Diana Sacayán   presented a bill   that seeks to institute the work quota of 1 percent of the positions of the national public administration for transvestites, transsexuals, transgender and trans masculinities.

The same source of Polo Obrero said that a few weeks ago, the place where he lived had been evicted, and another had to be obtained, "with how difficult it is for a trans girl to rent." From this group they seek to promote a request for justice to clarify the circumstances of his death.

http://agenciapresentes.org/2018/10/01/investigan-la-muerte-de-una-mujer-trans-atropellada-en-la-ruta-4/

https://twitter.com/AlertaProvincia/status/1046799453745762305

