Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-27T20:37:33+01:00

====== Lou Sullivan (San Francisco - 2 Mar 1991) ======
Created Sunday 27 September 2020



Lou Sullivan
2 Mar 1991 [born 16 Jun 1951]
San Francisco
California
USA
HIV



Louis Graydon Sullivan (June 16, 1951 – March 2, 1991) was an American author and activist known for his work on behalf of trans men. He was perhaps the first transgender man to publicly identify as gay,[1] and is largely responsible for the modern understanding of sexual orientation and gender identity as distinct, unrelated concepts.[2]

Sullivan was a pioneer of the grassroots female-to-male (FTM) movement and was instrumental in helping individuals obtain peer-support, counselling, endocrinological services and reconstructive surgery outside of gender dysphoria clinics. He founded FTM International, one of the first organizations specifically for FTM individuals, and his activism and community work was a significant contributor to the rapid growth of the FTM community during the late 1980s.[3]


Contents
1	Early life
2	Transition and adulthood
3	Activism and community contributions
3.1	Editor of The Gateway
3.2	GLBT Historical Society
3.3	Lobbying for recognition of gay trans men
4	Honors
5	Works
6	References
7	External links
8	Further reading
Early life
Sullivan grew up in Milwaukee, Wisconsin. Sullivan was born the third child of six in a very religious Catholic family and attended Catholic primary and secondary school.[3] Sullivan started keeping a journal at the age of 10, describing his early childhood thoughts of being a boy, confusing adolescence, sexual fantasies of being a gay man, and his involvement in the Milwaukee music scene.[3][4] During his adolescence he expressed continued confusion about his identity, writing at age 15 in 1966 that "I want to look like what I am but don't know what some one like me looks like. I mean, when people look at me I want them to think— there's one of those people […] that has their own interpretation of happiness. That's what I am."[5]

Sullivan was attracted to the idea of playing different gender roles, and his attraction for male roles was outlined in his writings, specifically in his short stories, poems and diaries; he often explored the ideas of male homosexuality and gender identity.[3] At the age of seventeen he began a relationship with a self-described "feminine" male lover, and together they would play with gender roles and gender-bending.[3]

Transition and adulthood
In 1973, Sullivan identified himself as a "female transvestite" and by 1975 he identified himself as a "female-to-male transsexual".[3] In 1975, it "became apparent" that Sullivan needed to leave Milwaukee for somewhere where he could find "more understanding" and access hormones for his transition, so he decided to move to San Francisco.[6] His family was supportive of the move and gave him "a handsome man's suit and [his] grandfather's pocket watch" as going-away presents.[6]

Upon arrival in San Francisco, Sullivan began working at the Wilson Sporting Good Company, where he was employed as a woman but cross dressed as a man much of the time.[3] In his personal life, Sullivan lived as an out gay man, but he was repeatedly denied sex reassignment surgery (SRS) because of his sexual orientation and the expectation of the time that transgender people should adopt stereotypical heterosexual opposite-sex gender roles.[1] This rejection led Sullivan to start a campaign to remove homosexuality from the list of contraindications for SRS.[1][3]

In 1976, Sullivan suffered a severe crisis of gender identity and continued living as a feminine heterosexual woman for the next three years. In 1978 he was shaken by the death of his youngest brother.[4] In 1979, Sullivan was finally able to find doctors and therapists who would accept his sexuality and began taking testosterone, with double mastectomy surgery following a year later.[1][3] He then left his previous job to work as an engineering technician at the Atlantic-Ritchfield Company so that he could fully embrace his new identity as a man with new co-workers.[3]

In 1986, Sullivan obtained genital reconstruction surgery. He was diagnosed as HIV positive shortly after his surgery, and told he only had 10 months to live.[7] It is likely that Sullivan was HIV- infected in 1980, just after his chest surgery.[4] He wrote, "I took a certain pleasure in informing the gender clinic that even though their program told me I could not live as a Gay man, it looks like I'm going to die like one."[1] Sullivan died of AIDS-related complications on March 2, 1991.

Activism and community contributions
Sullivan wrote the first guidebook for FTM persons,[8] and also a biography of the San Francisco FTM, Jack Bee Garland.[9] Sullivan was instrumental in demonstrating the existence of trans men who were themselves attracted to men.[10][11][12][13] Lou Sullivan began peer counselling through the Janus Information Facility which was an organization that provided transgender issues.[14] He is also credited for being the first to discuss the eroticism of men's clothing.[14]

Editor of The Gateway
Sullivan was active in the Golden Gate Girls/Guys organization (later called the Gateway Gender Alliance), one of the first social/educational organizations for transgender people that offered support to FTM transsexuals, and in fact successfully petitioned to add "Guys" to its name.[3] From July 1979 to October 1980, Sullivan edited The Gateway, a newsletter with "news and information on transvestism and transsexualism"[15] that was circulated by the Golden Gate Girls/Guys.[16] It was originally primarily focused on the needs of MTF and transvestite readers and read "much like a small town newspaper", but under Sullivan's editing it gained more gender parity between MTF and FTM issues. According to Megan Rohrer, Sullivan "transform[ed] Gateway in a way that [would] forever change FTM mentoring" because trans people could still obtain information on how to pass without having to attend group gatherings in person.[16]

GLBT Historical Society
Sullivan was a founding member and board member of the GLBT Historical Society (formerly the Gay and Lesbian Historical Society) in San Francisco. His personal and activist papers are preserved in the institution's archives as collection no. 1991–07; the papers are fully processed and available for use by researchers, and a finding aid is posted on the Online Archive of California.[17] The Historical Society has displayed selected materials from Sullivan's papers in a number of exhibitions, notably "Man-i-fest: FTM Mentoring in San Francisco from 1976 to 2009,"[18] which was open through much of 2010 in the second gallery at the society's headquarters at 657 Mission St. in San Francisco, and "Our Vast Queer Past: Celebrating San Francsico's GLBT History," the debut exhibition in the main gallery at the society's GLBT History Museum that opened in January 2011 in San Francisco's Castro District.[19]

Lobbying for recognition of gay trans men
Lou was a writer and capable of standing up for what he saw as truth. He was a gay transsexual man, before this was even allowed or recognized. He is also the person who helped to change that, and now – being gay is no longer an issue if you want to begin transition.

— Max Wolf Valerio[20]
Sullivan lobbied the American Psychiatric Association and the World Professional Association for Transgender Health for them to recognize his existence as a gay trans man.[14] He was determined to change people's attitudes towards trans homosexuals[21] but also to change the medical process of transition by removing sexual orientation from the criteria of gender identity disorder so that trans men who are gay could also access hormones and surgery, essentially making the process "orientation blind".[21]

Honors
In June 2019, Sullivan was one of the inaugural fifty American “pioneers, trailblazers, and heroes” inducted on the National LGBTQ Wall of Honor within the Stonewall National Monument (SNM) in New York City’s Stonewall Inn.[22][23] The SNM is the first U.S. national monument dedicated to LGBTQ rights and history,[24] and the wall’s unveiling was timed to take place during the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots.[25]

In August 2019, Sullivan was one of the honorees inducted in the Rainbow Honor Walk, a walk of fame in San Francisco’s Castro neighborhood noting LGBTQ people who have "made significant contributions in their fields."[26][27][28]



”Why does that book have a butt on it?” my daughter asked, somewhat scandalized by the rear-view sketch that dominates the cover of We Both Laughed in Pleasure: The Selected Diaries of Lou Sullivan 1961-1991. She feels strongly that kids should be able to learn about bodies and their parts and functions—but she hadn’t really seen images like this lying out on my nightstand.

“Lou Sullivan was a gay man who was transgender, and he was one of the first people to transition publicly in a time when many thought it was impossible to be both gay and transgender. And sexuality was a really important part of his life,” I explained, to say the least.

Reading these diary excerpts was like sitting down for coffee with a good slutty friend, with whom I’d gone too long without hearing details of their sexual exploits. But it was also much more than that. It was a detailed and intimate look inside the journey of a trans ancestor (which he was eager to have made public), an invitation into the life story of a powerhouse of queer and trans history told through his own deeply personal, achingly honest writing that was surprisingly resonant across generations.

Sullivan’s work and commitment to sharing queer and trans information and support has been fairly well documented. He published the 50-page handbook, “Information for the Female-to-Male Crossdresser and Transsexual” in 1980, thought to be the first guidebook of its type, started an “FTM” organization, and was a founding member and board member of the GLBT Historical Society (then known as the Gay and Lesbian Historical Society) in San Francisco, where his papers are now archived.

With such a wealth of personal writing from which to choose, the editors of We Both Laughed in Pleasure explain in an opening note that they intentionally prioritized his “worldly pleasures and ephemeral expressions of identity formed alongside his queer community … to illuminate the personal, lascivious, quotidian, poetic, and romantic aspects of his archive.”

I was hooked; I read until late at night. I drank down the immediacy and intimacy of Sullivan’s adventures. I felt the familiarity of his internal questioning and confidence in his core self from adolescence to adulthood, along with the fluctuating challenges of self-acceptance and attempts at developing his own language for his gender, body, and desires. And I ached with his search for a deeper, comprehensive acceptance from his three most significant partners.

Sullivan was prolific in his writing, passionate in his actions, and prescient in his collection of vital materials illustrating queer and trans history and lives in his times. And he was saucy, ready to look men in the eye at the bar and take them home or follow them to their place in a blink when he could, honoring his own desires even as he fought gatekeepers who sought to devalue his self-knowledge and put up roadblocks in his transition.

He would have mopped up on hookup apps.

Laughing in Pleasure
We Both Laughed In Pleasure- The Selected Diaries of Lou Sullivan cover
Courtesy of Nightboat Books
The title of the volume is taken from Sullivan’s diaries themselves, but also speaks to the intimate connection I felt in the entries as a reader. Indeed, I did laugh in pleasure as Sullivan tells of succeeding in a wished-for encounter with a fully naked cis man in a porn theater … and then finds out that his anonymous partner was the ticket-seller who had locked the front door to partake in his pleasures (and you can laugh along too, as you listen to the excerpt read aloud toward the end of this podcast interview with one of the book’s editors).

I ached with the longing that he felt when his primary partners couldn’t fully return his detailed desires or accept him as the man he was. And I rejoiced in reading of the steadfast support of his Catholic family and dearest friends, and for the excitement he felt as he prepared to meet another “female-to-male transsexual” for the first time.

Lou is very young when he starts his diaries, as an ostensibly pre-teen girl and irrepressible Beatlemaniac. He goes on to develop a lifelong crush on avant-garde rocker Lou Reed, from whom he takes his new first name. And drawn in as I was to this book, it wasn’t till I had nearly finished it that I remembered my own teenage fascination with Lou Reed.

In the very-pre-internet era, as Sullivan was starting to flourish as a more fully realized gay man living in San Francisco, I spent lunch breaks looking up old press articles on Reed before, during, and after his influential band, the Velvet Underground, on a mostly ignored microfiche machine in the school library.

Even though over 30 years have passed since I got through that gauntlet of an alien, despondent teenage life, I can still picture and feel that machine today, turning the clunky wheel that focused the screen to reveal the negative image of the original newsprint, white text as white on black background, and the flicker of excitement upon finding a treasure that verified the promise of a life outside of that which I’d known.

Reed had moved through his post–Velvet Underground swishy-bitchy leather Daddy phase long before I found him. But that persona captured my imagination as a young person longing for freedom of presentation, and yearning for a heavier sophistication that could set me apart from my seemingly shallow and unencumbered peers in the 1980s suburbs.

I was longing for more than I was even able to name at the time. It would take another half-dozen years, a drunken car crash, an elopement, a year or so in ACT UP, and getting gay bashed in a police riot at a protest before I fully acknowledged and committed to my own queerness, suddenly able to reflect on my gender in that new, dazzling light of a life falling into place and making a new kind of sense.

Sullivan died of AIDS-related causes as I was just starting to act on the no-longer-deniable glimmers of my own queer sexuality and finding my way back to the gender I’d known as myself at the age of 4. He continued to write in his diary as he was diagnosed and fell ill, right up to the brink of losing his life in 1991 when he was 39.

It evoked memories of several of my ACT UP Philadelphia comrades, who faced the inevitable process of their final months with the kind of honesty, openness, and queer humor I read in Sullivan’s diary entries as he approached his death—particularly Dominic Bash, a former Franciscan monk, beautiful queen, and hairdresser living in recovery who died a year and a half later. I remember feeling scandalized when Dominic slapped my very serious AIDS activist ass as he flew by me in roller skates, clad in a bikini and a high blonde ponytail (his homage to Madonna known as MoDominic), while we waited for the bus to take us to New York City Pride in 1991. And later that the day, I finally managed to kiss a girl.

We Both Laughed in Pleasure is vital not just as a historical documentation of a bygone age, but as affirmation of the ongoing complexities of transmasculinity that persist today, and perhaps always will. Sullivan’s words, like the stories of many trans ancestors, glow and crackle with life, resonating across generations in which each of us must learn that that which we know of ourselves to be real is absolutely true, is absolutely sacred and powerful, and absolutely perfect.

https://www.thebody.com/article/diaries-lou-sullivan-racy-determined-gay-transgender

https://lithub.com/how-lou-sullivans-journals-enrich-the-history-of-trans-literature/

https://www.theparisreview.org/blog/2019/10/02/memoirs-of-a-queer-revolutionary/

https://www.newyorker.com/books/page-turner/lou-sullivans-diaries-are-a-radical-testament-to-trans-happiness

https://web.archive.org/web/20080906123232/http://www.sgn.org/sgnnews36_08/page30.cfm

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lou_Sullivan
