Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2024-06-01T15:27:42+01:00

====== Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira (Campo Grande - 27 May 2024) ======
Created Saturday 01 June 2024
@medical


Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira
44
https://www.facebook.com/nilton.marcello/posts/pfbid0qzuS59sSDFYo7z4wX8Mv8zW4n9U89AsqPn8GiuJTfNCHQmyQhSLYfZ2GeCjSTjcrl
https://www.campograndenews.com.br/lado-b/comportamento-23-08-2011-08/filha-de-pastor-luana-e-transexual-que-nao-abre-mao-de-ser-serva-de-deus
27 May 2024
Campo Grande
Mato Grosso do Sul
Brazil
not reported



> Transgender pastor Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira (44) died after being hospitalized for eight days (due to unspecified major illness)



> DEATH NOTE - Victim of serious health complications, in Campo Grande (MS), the leader of the Evangelical Inclusiva Sou Casa Church, transgender pastor Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira, at the age of 44 years.
> With immense sorrow, deep pain, enormous dismay and sadness, through the official Facebook page of my sister and friend Noemi Arruda Ferreira, several other brothers and friends, I received the painful news that, on the morning of this Monday, (27/5/201), after fulfilling with honor and dignity her noble earthly mission and performing with praise for the glorious ministry that God entrusted to her, victim of serious health complications in a Hospital de Campo Grande (MS), where she was admitted and treated, alongside her family, and despite the great solidarity, cheering from family and friends, the strong and fervent stream of prayers, intercessions, supplications and cries to God for your life and health, approved the Almighty to call to you one of his best servants, the best daughter, the best sister, aunt, sister-in-law and friend of all, the dear and missed leader of the Evangelical Inclusive Church I'm Home, the transgender pastor Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira, at 44 years of age.
> The sad and unfortunate news of the unexpected, irreparable and premature death of transgender pastor Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira, in addition to her sister Noemi Arruda Ferrira, her family and friends, was confirmed by colleagues in the ministry, their faithful LGBTQIA+ sheep. and the whole evangelical inclusive community of sul-mato-grossense highly sensitized that besides hurting the loss of one of the greatest leaders of the evangelical inclusive movement, collaborator and founder of the Evangelical Inclusive Church I'm Home, sends notes of grief and prayers for the comfort of the family and friends.
> The body of the dear and missed transgender pastor Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira, after the wake that will be from 20h45 this Monday, (27/5/2024), in the Chapel of the Cemetery Park Jardim das Palmeiras, will be buried this Tuesday, (28/5/2019, at 9h30,, in Av. Tamandaré, 6934, ardim Seminary, Campo Grande (MS).
> Daughter of pastor Etelvino Ferreira and sister Noemi Arruda Ferreira, sister of pastor Wagner Arruda Ferrira, sister-in-law of Geziani and aunt-owl of little Ethan, Luana Dhara Arruda Ferraira was a strong transgender woman, full of life, health, energy, vision, dreams, many plans, a firm conviction, a pedagogue, politics and A transgender evangelical pastor and missionary, self-titled "Princess of the Lord", born as "Lucas", on November 10, 1979, in Campo Grande (MS), who during her adolescence feeling she did not belong to Luke's body, discovered her sexuality.
> And although she was born and raised in such a controversial environment, Luana sang, preached, participated in and coordinated a youth group in the mainstream church she attended until the day she was rejected because of her sexuality.
> While many believers of the evangelical churches told him, "This is a sin!" ", "You will be condemned to hell", "That has no forgiveness for God", Luana, who never gave up being a "servant of God", despite the prejudice suffered in the church she attended, she dreamed of being a pastor.
> After winning a lot of fight, many difficulties and many barriers, dealing with a psychologist to return to 'being a normal person' and living in a boarding school only for missionaries' children where a feeling arose for another boy who came to be corresponded, in a moment when it was good part of the evangelical churches and the "bench of the Bible" defended the values of life, with the support of her parents and a big part of the family, Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira, made the whole transition and the court process for the change of identity and signed herself as a transgender.
> Besides being a teacher who ended up retiring because of the depression she suffered, Luana was also a politician who in the 2020 election petition, through the Green Party (PV), tried for a seat in the Chamber of Councilors, but was not elected.
> And, as a pastor, after six months, starting with a cell, praying, working, studying the Word and calling people, she officially inaugurated, the Evangelical Inclusive Church, in the central region of Campo Grande, a space she needed to express her faith and spirituality, a safe environment where, especially the LGBTQIA+ audience. Without fear and without needing to hide, you can manifest your faith.
> According to Luana Dhara, the Evangelical Inclusive Church I'm Casa, "It's a normal church, it has praise, offering, ministry and prayer, the only differential is to accept everyone." It's a welcoming space that, even though not exclusive, brings the Word of God to the LGBTQIA+ audience in the Capital.
> Good and faithful servant of the Living and Almighty God, friend, beloved, leader full of faith and courage who has always been with spirituality and a lot of responsibility, who had plans of expanding the Church to other neighborhoods of the capital and other cities of the state, whose life blessed and transformed the the life of many people, made all the difference and will be greatly missed in the family center, among brothers and friends, in her last days, committed by a serious illness, despite all the efforts of the medical team and the prayers of the faithful, on the morning of this Monday, (27/5/2024), the teacher, transgender pastor Arruda Ferreira, unfortunately, had her life taken prematurely, and all her dreams, plans and projects interrupted forever.
> Happy are their parents, their brother, their sister-in-law and their nephew, other relatives, colleagues in the pastoral leadership, friends from many parts, members of the LGBTQIA+ community, their collaborators and the whole rural society that has had the grace, pride, pleasure and happiness of living with them. great and amazing politician, educator, transgender pastor and missionary planting of Evangelical Inclusive Church I'm Casa, always humorous, friendly, intelligent very dear to all and who, despite his short existence, provided his most relevant services to God, the kingdom and society, left his mark and contributed to help many people leaving for new generations the precious legacy of faith, love, dedication and professionalism that speaks for themselves, and through them he will always be remembered.
> At the same time, I regret the unexpected and premature death of one of the best transgender teachers and pastor Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira, who took it by surprise, left her groundless, opened a huge gap in the hearts of her family and friends and left the city and the entire LGBTQIA+ community. sad and heartbroken, I thank God for his life, I stand in solidarity with the bereaved family, I express my deepest sorrow and prayer to the Almighty God and Father of our Lord Jesus Christ, Father of mercies and God of all consolation to comfort the hearts of the family and friends of this A true warrior who besides fighting against all the complications of his serious illness, fought for his life, fought the good fight, finished his career and kept the faith (2. Timothy 4:7).
> "Rest In Peace, Luana Dhara Arruda Ferreira"! After the clouds, far beyond infinity, where the sky is always blue, in a much more beautiful place where you are now there will be no more death, no sadness, no crying, no pain; no work, no project, knowledge or any wisdom. Don't get married, don't get married. You will never be hungry, you will never be thirsty; neither sun nor calm will fall on you. There will be no curse, and it will not need a lamp light or sunlight, for the Lord God will light it up. God will wipe away all tears from your eyes, and you will reign for ever and ever.
> “Jesus said to her, I am the resurrection and the life. He who believes in me, though he die, yet shall he live; and he who lives and believes in me shall never die. Do you believe in this? ” John 11:25,2

FB: https://www.facebook.com/noemi.arrudaferreira.9



https://www.campograndenews.com.br/lado-b/comportamento-23-08-2011-08/pastora-trans-morre-mas-deixa-licao-para-igreja-acolher-com-amor

https://www.campograndenews.com.br/lado-b/comportamento-23-08-2011-08/filha-de-pastor-luana-e-transexual-que-nao-abre-mao-de-ser-serva-de-deus

https://www.campograndenews.com.br/lado-b/comportamento-23-08-2011-08/igreja-evangelica-com-pastora-trans-quer-acolher-publico-lgbtqia

https://www.facebook.com/nilton.marcello/posts/pfbid0qzuS59sSDFYo7z4wX8Mv8zW4n9U89AsqPn8GiuJTfNCHQmyQhSLYfZ2GeCjSTjcrl
