Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2022-07-14T08:30:02+01:00

====== Katia (Salamanca - 9 Jul 2022) ======
Created Thursday 14 July 2022
@uncategorised






Katia
9 Jul 2022
San Pedro
Salamanca
Guanajuato
Mexico
not reported



KAVACS Collective will hold a peaceful march in memory of people from the LGBTTTIQ+ community who have been victims of transphobia

They maintain contact with the relatives of Katia, a transgender person who was found dead in the old facilities of the municipal slaughterhouse. / Photos Jose Almanza | The Sun of Salamanca
Victor Razo | The Sun of Salamanca

Before the lifeless location of Katia, belonging to the LGBT community in Salamanca, the group KAVACS will carry out a peaceful march, as well as the placement of an altar in her memory. Besides that they have supported her family.

After the lifeless body of a transgender person, named Katia, was found on July 9 in the San Pedro neighborhood, in what used to be the old municipal slaughterhouse facilities, a fact that shocked the LGBTTTIQ+ community in the municipality of Salamanca .

Given these events, the KAVACS group from Salamanca regretted what happened, in addition to commenting that these events not only shocked the LGBTTTIQ+ community in the municipality but also had an impact at the state level. Lizbeth Cortes Hernández director of KAVACS and Kokeshi Dominguez, deputy director explained that they are working to raise awareness against discrimination, they also detailed that they are supporting Katia's family.

“We are going to pay tribute on July 24, but not only to her, but to all the sisters who have been lost along the way, some for fighting because they have been killed for transphobia and others for accidents, this tribute will be peaceful; At the state level we have had a figure of sixty percent as discrimination against transphobia, lesphobia and homophobia, "added Kokeshi.

Katia worked on cleaning windshields in the city in order to be able to take some entered home. Unofficially, at the time of her location, it was commented that a letter was found along with her body in which she expressed feeling alone.

With these actions, in support of the LGBTTTIQ+ community, the group will seek to have the support of families so that they can participate in this, in addition to the fact that the tribute will also be to make visible how far they can go and be accepted by citizens. The collectives meet to support the people of the community so that they can raise their voices and fight for their rights.



https://www.elsoldesalamanca.com.mx/local/realizaran-homenaje-en-memoria-de-katia-8589235.html
