Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-11-28T23:03:08+00:00

====== Name Unknown (Atibaia - Aug 2013) ======
Created Saturday 28 November 2020
@violence



Name Unknown
34
Aug 2013
Atibaia
SP
Brazil
stabbed

[New case? Cross reference against GGB]


Justice maintained the condemnation of a man to ten years in prison for the death of a transvestite in Atibaia. The transsexual had been killed by the man because, according to the police, he wanted to hide the relationship. The man has been in prison since 2014 and was trying to reverse the jury's decision, but the request was denied.

The crime took place in August 2013 when the 34-year-old transvestite was killed with about 30 knife blows. According to the investigations, the man reportedly had a relationship with the transvestite for about five months and, after a betrayal, she reportedly said that she would share photos of the two together on social media. 

To keep the relationship a secret, the man went to the victim's house and, during a fight, gave several knife blows, mostly in the neck. After the crime, he fled taking the victim's cell phone and tablet in an attempt to hide evidence of the relationship. 

The victim was found about a week later after neighbors noticed the stench in the house. The man was arrested about a month after the crime and confessed to committing the murder. 

He had been sentenced to ten years in prison in 2019, but he appealed the decision asking for the sentence to be reformulated. Justice, however, denied the request and maintained the conviction. 

"The exacerbated number of stab wounds translates into the victim's greater suffering, considering the pain, the anguish, the despair. Furthermore, the defendant maintained an intimate relationship with the victim, taking advantage of the trust he had in him to be able to enter the residence for practice the homicide. The appellant, in his interrogation, was specific in stating that he waited for the victim's death to remove the residence key from his pocket, showing extreme coldness ”, said the judge in his decision, published on November 13. The author remains in prison.

https://atibaia.portaldacidade.com/noticias/policial/justica-mantem-condenacao-de-homem-preso-por-matar-travesti-em-atibaia-5035
