Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-30T18:47:44+01:00

====== Rebeca (Brazil - 2019) ======
Created Tuesday 30 June 2020



Rebeca
24
Date unknown. reported 2 Dec 2019. Inquiry late Sep 2019
Brazil
suicide

[Rebeca was bipolar]

Banco do Brasil is convicted of suicide of trans employee 
 Jadre Marques Duarte Junior , 12/02/2019
Banco do Brasil is convicted of suicide of trans employee
Banco do Brasil will have to pay compensation to the mother of a trans employee who committed suicide. According to information from Folha de São Paulo , the TRT (Regional Labor Court) of the 15th region brought the trans collaborator's mother in a lawsuit against Banco do Brasil. As claimed by the mother, the collaborator was bullied and this would have been determinant for Rebeca's suicide (fictitious name).

The collaborator, who had been approved in a public contest and received a salary of R $ 2294.00, killed herself just over 1 year after having resigned her job.

Judge Ana Paula Alvarenga Martins, responsible for the sentence (signed at the end of September) ordered Banco do Brasil to pay R $ 120,000 in damages for moral damages to Rita (fictitious name of the collaborator's mother), who requested R $ 540,000. . The magistrate agreed with Rita's lawyers and understood that Rebeca actually took her own life, in part, due to prejudice suffered at work. For the judge, it would not make sense for the collaborator to relinquish the position won in a competitive tender without a serious reason for it.

In addition to dismissing the notice to which she would be entitled, Rebeca left a letter in which she criticized the company's policies. In the letter, Rebeca said there was a lack of preparation of the institution regarding the "issue of gender identity". In addition, she also suggested that bank management should study this issue further to avoid problems with other transgender employees in the future.

Discriminatory situations at Banco do Brasil
Among the discriminatory situations faced by Rebeca at Banco do Brasil were the ban on greeting colleagues with kisses on the cheek. On one occasion, Rebeca would have questioned the ban on kisses on the cheek. However, the bank's management would have reacted rudely to his question.

According to a witness heard by the defense, the collaborator would never have suffered further discrimination and was allowed to go to the ladies' room and be called by a female name. On the other hand, another defense witness reported that a manager called Rebeca by his male name, the same day the agency's general manager called her by her female social name.

In addition to this situation, according to the lawyers, another manager was even more prejudiced and told Rebeca that she would never be a "real woman". In addition, several employees made transphobic jokes and were bothered that Rebeca could use the ladies' room. Other embarrassing situations suffered by the trans employee were being transferred from the public service sector and dealt with harshly by the manager.

Psychiatric problems and time off work
Rebeca found that she identified herself as a woman during psychiatric treatment to treat her bipolarity. By this time she would have tried to kill herself. Before resigning, Rebeca took time off work for 8 months by the INSS. However, the defense points out that she was performing her duties with great commitment and efficiency while bipolarity was being addressed.

However, bullying situations led to a serious bipolar crisis and a psychotic break. This, therefore, made the employee resign, as she could no longer stand being treated with indifference and prejudice.

Banco do Brasil's Answer
Banco do Brasil states in a statement sent by its press office that it “regrets what happened” and “repudiates any practices that constitute harassment of any kind, and maintains this determination expressed in its code of ethics and the rules of conduct that should be followed by their employees. ” Also according to the note, since 2018 the bank has been following the Standards of Business Conduct in addressing UN LGBTI + discrimination, in addition to complying with the Racial and Gender Equality Business Initiative.

Finally, the institution also considers the possibility of appeal against this judgment.

https://seucreditodigital.com.br/banco-do-brasil-e-condenado-por-suicidio-de-funcionaria-trans/

https://www1.folha.uol.com.br/cotidiano/2019/12/banco-do-brasil-tera-de-indenizar-mae-de-trans.shtml
