Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-09T10:46:11+00:00

====== Jaylow Mcglory (Alexandria - 4 Aug 2017) ======
Created Saturday 09 January 2021
@violence


Jaylow Mcglory
29 [born 23 Jan 1988]
2017_08_04_Jaylow-Mcglory.jpg
https://www.hrc.org/news/hrc-mourns-jaylow-mcglory-a-transgender-woman-killed-in-louisiana
4 Aug 2017
[Monroe Street]
Alexandria
Louisiana
USA
31.306019,-92.4662735
shot
NOT ON TDOR LIST




No Justice for Trans woman Jaylow Mcglory her Killer walks Free
Added by Kelli Busey on January 9, 2021.

Justice for Jaylow Mcglory, her mother, and sister

Jaylow Mcglory, a Black transgender woman, was killed on August 4, 2017, in Alexandria La by her partner Desmond Donte Harris. The trial was a mockery of justice. Desmond Donte Harris literally got away with his second murder.

But until today Jaylow Mcglory was not included in the 18th International Transgender Day of Remember list due to misgendering and deadnaming by police and the media. This resulted in her not being publicly identified as a transgender woman until November 1, 2017 by the New York City Anti-Violence Project after the 2017 TDoR reporting period ended.

The administrators of the TDoR list told PTG that at the time they were relatively new to this process, but ensure us that “they are much better at it now.”

Yea, Indeed we are,

Trigger warning

Local media never stopped misgendering trans women Jaylow Mcglory from the day she was killed in cold blood to the day Desmond Donte Harris was acquitted. Harris who was initially charged with murder is the First degree was the only witness the defense called to testify. Harris was found not guilty by a jury of second-degree murder in 2019 by using a version of the reviled and discredited trans panic defense.

Mcglory, a transgender woman, and Harris, a cisgender male been involved in a sexual relationship for about six months, but Harris testified that they got into an argument in their Monroe Street duplex on Aug. 4, 2017, because McGlory insisted on penetrating him.

Throughout their relationship, it always had been the other way around, he said.

“I told him (sic) I don’t get down like that,” Harris told Cortello.

Harris and McGlory had just moved into a duplex on Monroe Street about a week before the shooting took place, according to the landlord at the property, as well as a neighbor. That neighbor, Latasha Forte, said in just a brief amount of time, she frequently heard the two arguing.

During the day of the shooting, Forte told the court that she heard Harris and McGlory arguing and then heard “two pops” and didn’t think anything of it at first, that’s until a bloody McGlory showed up to her door telling her to call the police. McGlory, who never identified the shooter, died before first responders could get there.

Detectives with the Alexandria Police Department told the court that they recovered two bullets, as McGlory was shot two times, and three bullet casings. A weapon was never found. Shortly before the shooting, Harris placed a call to his landlord, upset, and told her, “He said I want her to leave. I wasn’t sure who ‘her’ was. I said the best course of action was to call the police.”

After the shooting, investigators “pinged” Harris’s cellphone and tracked him down to his sister’s home on Irish Lane where was hiding in a closet. He requested an attorney immediately and never spoke to the police.

On the second and final day of testimonyHarris testified that he had walked out of a bathroom to find McGlory with a gun. He said the two fought over it, that it fired three times — hitting McGlory twice — and then he ran away.

Prosecutors asked Harris about the jail conversation that inmate Brandon Wade Clark had testified about for the prosecution on Wednesday. Clark said Harris had confessed during a conversation with him and other inmates to using McGlory for money and sex and shooting him.

Harris then said Mcglory had the gun in her possession as they struggled but laid it down next to him when she was fatally wounded. The gun has never been recovered.

Harris was previously arrested by the Alexandria Police Department in 2015 on an attempted first-degree murder charge, which later was reduced to attempted second-degree murder, for allegedly shooting a man in the chest on Chester Street.

The delinquency charges stemmed from an earlier 2015 case in which two juveniles were charged as adults in the death of a man whose body was found in City Park. Harris was indicted on eight felony counts, but five of those were dropped.

Harris has pleaded guilty to other charges and still faces other unrelated charges, according to Rapides Parish Clerk of Court online records.

In 2008 a young woman in Greeley Colorado was murdered. Her name was Angie Zapata. The man who murdered her Allen Ray Andrade used the transpanic defense. The difference is that the Police and media were respectful of Angie Zapata’s gender and name. And Andrade did not get away with murder.


The man accused of killing a transgender person in Alexandria back in 2017 has been found not guilty in the Rapides Parish Courthouse on Thursday.

Desmond Harris was charged with second-degree murder in the shooting death of Jeffery "Jaylow" McGlory, 29, in August 2017. The two were in a relationship, and according to a neighbor, were often fighting.

Harris was facing an automatic life in prison. But the jury on Thursday declared him not guilty.

"I was very pleased with the outcome of the verdict," said Glenn Cortello, Harris' attorney. "I was very concerned as a matter of law I knew the jury would have to find that the crime could not have been committed in self-defense. The prosecution had an uphill battle to show a negative. They had to prove a negative and that can be very hard. In fairness to the prosecution it's a hard thing to do. But, we're overwhelmed with joy and happiness that he is being released on that charge. The jury followed the law and acquitted. We're very pleased with that."

"It is a surprise," said Phillip Terrell, DA. "We felt certain the jury would convict the young man, at least of manslaughter. It was a tough case because these folks were in a relationship and that's the beauty of our system. We're required to prove beyond a reasonable doubt each and every element of the crime and the jury did not agree with our position. That's how America works."

In a surprise move, on Thursday morning, Harris took the stand in his own defense. In fact, he was the only defense witness called.

Harris told the court that he knew McGlory, who was transgender, for about six months and had lived with him and had a sexual relationship with him for that period of time.

During the day of the crime, Harris said McGlory wanted to “rape” him.

“He told me he wanted to penetrate me,” he testified. “I told him I don’t get down like that.”

Harris called his landlord to get her to get McGlory to leave, but she said he needed to call the police. Harris told the court he was “afraid of police” and didn’t make the call.

Harris said when McGlory was allegedly threatening to rape him, McGlory had a gun. But, at some point, McGlory put the gun down. That’s when Harris grabbed it.

“The gun went off and hit him,” Harris said of McGlory being shot twice. “I took off into the backyard.”

Harris maintained that he didn’t know the gun, which another witness said he owned, was loaded.

Harris said after the shooting he ran and dumped the gun in the river, before running to his sister’s home on 16th Street and then having a nephew pick him up and take him to another sister’s home on Irish Lane. Police tracked him down by pinging his cellphone and found him hiding in a closet. Harris said he never told his sister why he was hiding.

When asked again by his attorney, Glenn Cortello, if he intended to kill McGlory, he said “no.”

During cross-examination from prosecutor Cheryl Carter, Carter doubled down on testimony from Harris that he and McGlory had been involved in an ongoing relationship and that McGlory never threatened to rape him before.

“So out of the blue, he pulled a gun and said, ‘I want to rape you?’” asked Carter. “Yes ma’am,” Harris replied.

Harris said he only wanted to “hit” McGlory with the gun, not shoot him. He also said McGlory was blocking the exit.

During closing arguments, Carter said, “Desmond Harris had to come up with some kind of story about why he killed Jeffery McGlory.”

She reminded them that in a jailhouse letter he wrote that he never mentioned the threat of being raped. Later, she added, “If he put the gun down, where is the threat?”

Cortello told the jury as he wrapped up that if they believed that Harris had the intent to kill McGlory “then send the little felon to jail,” because he won’t survive it.




NCAVP mourns the death of Jaylow Mcglory, a Black transgender woman, who was killed on August 4, 2017. According to media reports, 29-year-old Jaylow had been fatally shot multiple times, and police are investigating her death as a homicide. A suspect, 20-year-old Desmond Harris, has been charged with second-degree murder. Early media reports initially misgendered Jaylow, and little information is available about the circumstances of her death.

We mourn the loss of Jaylow Mcglory, and send love and care to her friends and loved ones. “All of us need to be working to keep transgender people safe in our communities, and to support our trans friends and family members as they grieve and heal,” said LaLa Zannell, Lead Organizer at the New York City Anti-Violence Project.

In memory of Jaylow Mcglory.



HRC mourns the death of Jaylow Mcglory, a Black transgender woman fatally shot in Alexandria, Louisiana, on August 4.

Post submitted by Sula Malina, Children, Youth and Families Program Coordinator

HRC mourns the death of Jaylow Mcglory, a Black transgender woman fatally shot in Alexandria, Louisiana, on August 4.

The National Coalition of Anti-Violence Programs (NCAVP) reported that Mcglory, 29, was shot multiple times. Police have charged Desmond Harris with her murder. Multiple social media posts suggest that the two may have been in a relationship leading up to her death, indicating that Mcglory’s death may be a case of intimate partner violence.

Mcglory was unfortunately misgendered in initial media and police reports, and in her funeral home obituary. Her identity as a transgender woman was not publicly confirmed until several months after her passing by BreakOUT!, a community group in New Orleans, Louisiana. The group contacted NCAVP to report Mcglory’s death. Without the work of these advocates, her death may have continued to go unrecognized.

Friends noted that they would miss Mcglory’s “smiles and laughs.” On her online obituary page, Mcglory’s sister wrote that Mcglory would be missed and that she “[continues] to watch over us.” A cousin of Mcglory’s expressed her despair on Facebook, writing, “I Just Wish I Could Have Saved U Jaylow Baby … R. I. P.”

As is too often the case in the reporting of anti-transgender violence, Mcglory’s misgendering delayed our awareness of this deadly crime. The misgendering of transgender individuals is indicative of anti-transgender bias and discrimination too often seen from law enforcement, in media reporting and by our highest elected officials. In the pursuit of greater accuracy and respect, HRC offers guidelines for journalists and others who report on transgender people.

Mcglory’s death, if committed by her partner, is a painful reminder that more must be done to support those experiencing intimate partner violence. Trans people are disproportionately represented in domestic violence cases across the country. Jamie Saunders, CEO of Willow Domestic Violence Center, noted that transgender people face “additional unique barriers” in seeking safety and support from domestic violence.

Jaylow's Facebook profiles are https://www.facebook.com/jaylow.mcglory.3 and https://www.facebook.com/jaylow.mcglory.9. Her Instagram profile is https://www.instagram.com/jaylowmcglory/.

https://planettransgender.com/justice-for-trans-woman-jaylow-mcglory/

https://klax-tv.com/desmond-harris-found-not-guilty-in-2017-murder-case/

https://www.kalb.com/content/news/Desmond-Harris-takes-the-stand-said-victim-tried-to-rape-him-day-of-shooting-560149641.html

https://www.kalb.com/content/news/Murder-Trial-Friend-testifies-that-Desmond-Harris-victim-were-couple-Harris-was-aggressive-560066971.html

https://eu.thetowntalk.com/story/news/2019/09/11/inmate-testifies-harris-admitted-fatally-shooting-boyfriend/2294338001/

https://avp.org/ncavp-mourns-homicide-jaylow-mcglory-alexandria-la/

https://www.hrc.org/news/hrc-mourns-jaylow-mcglory-a-transgender-woman-killed-in-louisiana

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=6nnSQ-18tSQ

https://twitter.com/RaquelWillis_/status/932768272654544899
