Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-07-12T08:14:58+01:00

====== Laura (Ciudad de Mexico - 18 Oct 2017) ======
Created Sunday 12 July 2020
@violence



Laura
18 Oct 2017
Ciudad de Mexico 
shot

NOT ON TDOR LIST

While dipping her lipstick of a flaming red on the lips, she remembers with sadness the story of one of her colleagues who was murdered in late 2017 and whom she met a year after her arrival in the Mexican capital.

“With Laura I had a very nice bond, we were very close friends and since I was practically new in the city, she always helped me find a path that would leave me with good things in life. Because of her I got my first job as an assistant in an esthetician and then we both dedicated ourselves to being an escort. ” She mentioned at the time of gently outlining the final touch of that reddish that illuminated her mouth.

The light fades softly, the sun decides to hide for a few minutes at the precise moment in which he comments “on October 18 two years ago (2017), Laura and I were going to work, she already had an appointment with a client, we had a point meeting, he was waiting for her since before we arrived, she had become very pretty. That day she had received good news at her job, had been given a better job, and already had a plan to move to a better house. We got to where they were waiting for her, I hugged her very tight and she walked towards the car, I without lying, I felt sad, as if I was already witnessing something ugly. She got on with the guy, advanced and in a few seconds I heard gunshots. I started running and realized that I had killed her. ” A silence that infested the room, second by second became a chill,

"I called the police , the guy ripped himself off and as if I was in a horror movie, I managed to take a picture with my cell phone of the car showing the license plates. The case was presented at the attorney general's office but neither did they take me as a witness or consider the photographs as evidence enough. The case was not pursued and he remains at liberty. ” Similar to the scarlet red of his lips his eyes were slightly colored. Tears were inevitable.

https://diarioportal.com/2020/07/11/raquel-lomeli-el-dia-a-dia-de-una-escort-transgenero/



