Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-30T19:26:19+01:00

====== Name Unknown (San Salvador el Seco - 26 Sep 2017) ======
Created Tuesday 30 June 2020



Name Unknown
26 Sep 2017
San Salvador el Seco
Puebla
Mexico
shot


NOT ON TDOR 2017 LIST

The lifeless body found on the morning of Tuesday on the federal highway El Seco-Ciudad Serdán, corresponds to a transvestite, it was until the body was lifted by the authorities when they detected that she was not a woman, so a new feminicide case as was handled at the beginning.

The morning of this Tuesday calls to the commander of the Municipal Police, said that the clothing had been reported that the body belonged to a woman, same was found in one of the curves of the aforementioned road in the auxiliary board of Santa Maria Coatepec, belonging to El Seco.

The corpse with female clothing had injuries to the skull, and so far the motive of the homicide is unknown. It was until the arrival of the ministerial authorities and expert services that they realized that he was a transvestite. 

The man wore a blue denim shorts, pink socks, brown shoes, blouse of the same color and black underwear. The body without a visa was transferred to the City amphitheater as a stranger.

SAN SALVADOR EL SECO, Pue.- The inert body of a man with a woman was found on the side of the federal highway ElSeco-Azumbilla, at the height of the place known as "Lascurvas" in the town of Santa María Coatepec, belonging to this municipality.

Although at first it was reported that the corpse was a female, it was later confirmed that it was a transvestite.

According to the corresponding report, the facts were reported on Tuesday morning, through 911 calls that alerted a person shot to the side of the aforementioned via communication.

To the place arrived elements of the municipal police and paramedics of the area, who could do nothing for the man, who no longer showed vital signs, deosing him clinically dead.

The man, who wore sneakers, a short cut and a print blouse was found with head injuries, it is believed that he would have been killed at another point and thrown his body in "The curves of Coatepec." So far it is in quality of unknown.

The ministerial police and experts of the General State Prosecutor's Office (FGE) arrived at the place for the removal of the corpse, as well as to carry out the corresponding proceedings.

http://www.diariocambio.com.mx/2017/regiones/valsequillo/item/22055-no-era-feminicidio-a-un-travesti-fue-al-que-asesinaron-en-el-seco-ciudad-serdan

https://www.elsoldepuebla.com.mx/local/estado/encuentran-cadaver-de-travesti-en-la-carretera-federal-el-seco-azumbilla-847770.html
