Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-11-05T18:57:55+00:00

====== Alejandra Benitez (Tucuman - 5 Nov 2020) ======
Created Thursday 05 November 2020
@violence



Alejandra Benitez ("La Power")
34
2020_11_05_Alejandra-Benitez.jpg
https://www.lagaceta.com.ar/nota/867771/actualidad/transfemicidio-tucuman-joven-fue-asesinada-confuso-episodio.html
https://lanotatucuman.com/travesticidio-en-tucuman-alejandra-power-benitez-fue-asesinada-a-balazos/tucuman/05/11/2020/53149/
https://www.lagacetasalta.com.ar/nota/145414/actualidad/quien-empresario-salteno-sospechado-matar-joven-trans-tucuman.html
5 Nov 2020
Tucumán
Argentina
shot




Today the residents of the April 2 neighborhood woke up with news that plunges them into the deepest grief: La Power was murdered . That's what they called the 34-year-old trans young Alejandra Benítez where they saw her grow up and where they witnessed her solidarity and her constant militancy in favor of the trans collective. “He was happy, cheerful. She lived for her brothers and her nephews. He had a very big heart, he helped those who did not have and he collected clothes to donate. He had no evil with anyone, ”her sister Verónica reminds her, reliving the pain of loss. In 1991, when he was just 13 years old, one of his brothers was the victim of a violent crime. 
“What happened has hit me and mobilized me a lot. It has been very strong to wake up with that news. We know her and she is part of our neighborhood. She was very committed to the most vulnerable part of the neighborhood and was always helping with different solidarity issues here. When the floods occurred or when someone needed something, she was there ", says Federico , a neighbor of the 2 de Abril neighborhood where Alejandra was from and where her mother lives whom she had visited yesterday:" She was very close to her mother. She told him she was fine, no one expected this to happen ”. 
Alejandra Benítez was also Alejandra Power or, simply, La Power, as she was known around here. Among the younger trans women, they called her Godmother or Mother because she was the one who accompanied and advised them in the transgender transition process. “ In the neighborhood, the girls called her mom. She was a spokesperson and godmother for the younger trans. She cared for them and protected them. They were very companions of hers and now they are all destroyed, ”says Federico. Alejandra was a sex worker and one of the creators of the group Trans Unidas whose objective is to make visible all the demands and needs of the community of trans women in the province. During the pandemic, Alejandra helped collect merchandise for trans women from Tucumán. 
“She had no problem with anyone, she shared with anyone, as long as they don't disrespect her. She has always been about improving herself, about traveling. She was in solidarity with everyone here, she never forgot that she comes from a humble neighborhood. The whole neighborhood is amazed by what has happened and we feel unprotected by the state. Politicians and judges leave much to be desired, those who represent us are killing us ”, reflects Federico, moved. 
Around six in the morning today, Alejandra was shot to death at the intersection of Roca and Ayacucho where she was with two other people. One of whom was seriously injured. In the case, the Prosecutor's Unit in Homicides II intervenes, in charge of Carlos Sale , who personally supervised the investigative tasks in the place. At the same time, the Scientific Investigations Team (ECIF), staff from the Second Police Station and the Homicide Division, participated. "The fatal victim was identified as Alejandra Benitez, who was shot and attacked by another trans woman, who also shot another subject who was operated on for those injuries," said the prosecutor Sale this morning.
However, some witnesses who contacted the family assured that it was a man who fired the shots. “The only thing we know for now is that he was with some friends and then there was an argument, someone has drawn a gun and they have shot him. They say that it is a male who has shot him, we do not know anything else so far. She was not wrong with anyone, she never commented on anything. ", Said Verónica Benítez , her 40-year-old sister who is now crying out for clarification of the fact:" We ask for justice for her. Trans girls are often discriminated against by society, but they are human beings who have the right to live like anyone else . If we have to do marches, we are going to do them, this cannot go unpunished ”. 
“We were six and now we have four. My mother has already lost a son in a similar way , ” says Verónica in reference to her brother Jorge Marcelo Benítez, who was 13 years old when he was assassinated in 1991. In a very controversial case at the time, Jorge was found dead from 12 stab wounds a night on May 21, 1991 in the house of the artist and teacher Lucrecia Rosemberg de Moeremans that he cared for. Darío Orsi and Walter Miranda were convicted of the incident.
That of Alejandra Benítez was the second transfemicide registered in Tucumán so far this year after that of Vanesa Solórzano , 20, which occurred on August 11. From the Organizing Commission of the Tucumán Pride March they demanded justice for Alejandra through a statement. “The transvesticide of Alejandra Power is a transodiagnostic crime, reinforced by state negligence, in the absence of a comprehensive health, work and education plan for the transvestite community. The situations of vulnerability in which the companions live are not isolated events, the life expectancy of the community does not exceed 35-40 years, living in a province where there is no political will to give answers ”, states one of the paragraphs of the document. 


They attacked her on the sidewalk of her house in the southern part of the Tucuman capital. A 34-year-old trans was shot to death and a person accompanying her was injured. The victim was identified as Alejandra Benítez . It all happened when she was with a man drinking alcohol and sitting on the sidewalk of her house, when another passed on board a motorcycle, took out a firearm and began to shoot them.

Benítez died at the scene, while the man who was with her was injured and was transferred and operated on at the Centro de Salud hospital. After the surgical intervention, the survivor declared before the Justice that he was next to Benítez sitting on the sidewalk, when a stranger approached on a motorcycle who "at first stood aside, but then began to argue, he pulled out a weapon and fired ' , after which he escaped aboard the vehicle.

The witness's statement turned the investigation around, since the prosecutor Carlos Sale had reported that the attack had been committed by another trans woman. The three people " would have been meeting drinking alcoholic beverages when they began to argue, the aggressor went to a motorcycle, took out a gun, shot them and left in the vehicle ," the prosecutor said early yesterday, which was later dismissed. for the survivo

Transfemicides: In the raids they kidnap weapons and ammunition
In order to bring the perpetrator of Alejandra Estefanía Benítez's crime to justice and collect more evidence on the case, personnel from the Homicide Division carried out several raids on Friday in which firearms and ammunition were seized. At another address, the main suspect's vehicles were hijacked.


07/11/2020 00:00
The General Director of Criminal Investigations and Complex Crimes, Inspector Commissioner Jorge Dib, reported that as a result of a measure carried out at 700 Concordia Street in Yerba Buena, they kidnapped a 9 mm caliber pistol, a 22mm caliber carbine, numerous ammunition and ballistic elements and a cell phone.

On the other hand, in a building on 700 La Rioja street in the South District of the Capital, the car and motorcycle of the alleged perpetrator of the crime were seized among technological elements, in another of the measures carried out under the supervision of Commissioner Diego Bernachi, Chief of the Homicide Division.

The fact

The incident occurred around 5 am last Thursday, on Ayacucho Street and Roca Avenue. Alerted by an operator of the 911 Emergency System, members of the Urban Patrol quickly arrived at the scene and found the lifeless body of a 24-year-old trans woman on the sidewalk. They immediately guarded the place until our specialized team and the staff of the Homicide Prosecutor II Unit arrived, headed by the prosecutor Carlos Sale.

According to the first investigations, the victim and the perpetrator knew each other and there was a discussion between them that ended in the fatal outcome. The suspect, who first moved in a car and later on a motorcycle, fired shots with a firearm at the victim and a man who was with her on the sidewalk, identified as Diego Mercado, 34, who is admitted out of danger in the Hospital Clinic.



Transfemicide in Tucumán: a young woman was murdered in a confusing episode
It happened this morning in Roca and Ayacucho. The police work at the site.

A trans woman was murdered this morning, around 6, at the intersection of Roca and Ayacucho. According to data provided by the Police, the victim was identified as Alejandra Benitez , 34.

According to sources from the Public Prosecutor's Office, two trans women were found together with a subject on the sidewalk of a home in the vicinity of Ayacucho street and Roca avenue. In circumstances that are being investigated, one of them would have extracted a firearm and shot at the other people, to later escape. 

One of the victims died at the scene, while the other was hospitalized and operated.

"The fatal victim was identified as Alejandra Benitez, who was shot and attacked by another trans woman, who also shot another subject who was operated on for those injuries," confirmed the prosecutor Carlos Sale.

THE PLACE OF THE EVENT. The Police work in the area.

Regarding the circumstances in which the event was recorded, he indicated: "They had been gathered drinking alcoholic beverages when they began to argue and the aggressor went to a motorcycle, drew a weapon and shot the other people."

The judicial official added that the first technical examinations are being carried out by the different ECIF divisions on the scene and carrying out a survey of the cameras in the area, in addition to other inquiries regarding the case.

The Public Prosecutor's Office reported that the Homicide II Prosecutor's Unit intervenes in the case, headed by Carlos Sale, who personally supervised the different investigative tasks on the scene. These actions were coordinated by the researcher Guadalupe Martínez. At the same time, the Scientific Investigations Team (ECIF) was given an intervention. On the part of the police, personnel from the Second Police Station and the Homicide Division acted.


Transfemicide in Tucumán: the Power was 34 years old and they shot him point-blank
By: Present
Are you here:
Nov 6 2020
ARGENTINE NEWS
Alejandra Benitez Facebook
By Gabriela Cruz, from San Miguel de Tucumán

Photos: Facebook and MPF

Yesterday another transfemicide was known in Tucumán: Alejandra Benítez, a 34-year-old trans woman, was shot dead in the back on the sidewalk where she lived, on Roca Avenue and Ayacucho Street in the provincial capital. During the morning, the Homicide Prosecutor Unit No. 2 reported that a key witness had been testified. The versions point to a man as the author of the shooting.

“Lo último que supimos es que un tipo se bajó de la moto, discutió con ella y le disparó a quemarropa”, dijo Claudinna Rukone, activista trans y amiga de Alejandra. “Al parecer Alejandra se estaba alejando cuando esta persona sacó el arma”, cuenta Lorenzo Franco, coordinador en Tucumán de la Asociación de Travestis Transexuales y Transgéneros de Argentina (ATTTA). 

From the organization they were accompanying Alejandra's family throughout the day on Wednesday. “I met Alejandra during the pandemic. He put the needs of the companions on his shoulder and we worked a lot with the food modules so that those who were having a very bad time did not lack, ”says Franco.

That of Alejandra Benítez is the second transfemicide in the province since the measures for the Covid 19 pandemic began . The previous one was that of Vanesa Solórzano, a 20-year-old girl whose body was found in the Canal Sur area in San Miguel de Tucumán. Alejandra and Vanesa earned their daily living as sex workers, as did so many transvestites and transsexuals who suffer structural violence and lack of access to basic rights. Neither of them reached the average age of life of a trans person in Latin America: 35 years.

The Power
“Her mom was everything to her. On Tuesday he came to the neighborhood and to visit her, she brought to share at noon because she was very familiar. He always came even for a little while or called by phone every day when he traveled to other provinces ”, says Julio Rocha, Alejandra's first cousin. “We grew up together. His life was very hard. He was five years old when his brother was murdered and soon after he lost his father who could not overcome the loss of that son, ”Julio says in dialogue with Presentes. 

"'La Power' was tremendous," says Claudinna and in the midst of sadness she laughs remembering her friend. “We knew her name was Alejandra but nobody called her that, she was always 'La Power'. And it lived up to the name. It was a whirlwind. Full of strength and joy. Of those people with whom you can not be angry. 

" Every death is a setback for the community"
All the people who remember Alejandra describe her as fun, happy, supportive and committed. “She was a girl who lived like no one 'now', without major projections. Get the mango now, enjoy now because we don't know what tomorrow is.  His death is a blow for all of us and a setback for the community because each achievement in conquering our rights seems like a small step when one of us is murdered, ”Claudinna concludes. 

Police sources confirmed to Presentes that the results of the autopsy are awaited. For now, the images of the security cameras are being analyzed, both from the public thoroughfare and from the commercial premises in the area. 


Photo: MPF
El lugar donde Alejandra fue asesinada es una especie de complejo habitacional donde la mayoría de las personas que alquilan son trans. “Ese lugar significa mucho para nosotras, porque en Tucuman es el único accesible y céntrico donde las chicas pueden alquilar sin tantas complicaciones y no sólo vivir, sino también trabajar. Es muy fuerte que en este momento que ese lugar represente la muerte de una compañera”, lamenta Rukone. 

Ayer los WhatsApps de las amigas replicaban el mensaje y el pedido de Justicia: “La muerte de una trans es una pérdida para todo nuestro colectivo, ya que dia a dia que pasa sin haber politicas integrales que nos protejan, es unx trans menos: El Estado es Responsable! Exigimos que el transfemicidio de Alejandra se esclarezca y haya Justicia para ella. Vuela alto mariposa… El estado es responsable. Ley Integral Trans YA! Sin las trans, no hay NI UNA MENOS. JUSTICIA POR ALEJANDRA POWER”.

Un crimen de odio a personas LGBT+ cada tres días en Argentina

Entre el 1 de enero y el 30 de junio de este año, 69 personas LGBTIQ+ fueron atacadas, asesinadas, o sufrieron abandono por parte del Estado.

Leer más

All our content is freely accessible. To continue doing independent, inclusive and rigorous journalism, we need your help. You can collaborate  here .


Transfemicide in Tucumán: the Power was 34 years old and they shot him point-blank
By: Present
Are you here:
Nov 6 2020
ARGENTINE NEWS
Alejandra Benitez Facebook
By Gabriela Cruz, from San Miguel de Tucumán

Photos: Facebook and MPF

Yesterday another transfemicide was known in Tucumán: Alejandra Benítez, a 34-year-old trans woman, was shot dead in the back on the sidewalk where she lived, on Roca Avenue and Ayacucho Street in the provincial capital. During the morning, the Homicide Prosecutor Unit No. 2 reported that a key witness had been testified. The versions point to a man as the author of the shooting.

"The last we knew is that a guy got off the motorcycle, argued with her and shot him point blank," said Claudinna Rukone, a trans activist and friend of Alejandra. "Apparently Alejandra was walking away when this person drew the weapon," says Lorenzo Franco, coordinator in Tucumán of the Association of Transsexual and Transgender Transvestites of Argentina (ATTTA). 

From the organization they were accompanying Alejandra's family throughout the day on Wednesday. “I met Alejandra during the pandemic. He put the needs of the companions on his shoulder and we worked a lot with the food modules so that those who were having a very bad time did not lack, ”says Franco.

That of Alejandra Benítez is the second transfemicide in the province since the measures for the Covid 19 pandemic began . The previous one was that of Vanesa Solórzano, a 20-year-old girl whose body was found in the Canal Sur area in San Miguel de Tucumán. Alejandra and Vanesa earned their daily living as sex workers, as did so many transvestites and transsexuals who suffer structural violence and lack of access to basic rights. Neither of them reached the average age of life of a trans person in Latin America: 35 years.

The Power
“Her mom was everything to her. On Tuesday he came to the neighborhood and to visit her, she brought to share at noon because she was very familiar. He always came even for a little while or called by phone every day when he traveled to other provinces ”, says Julio Rocha, Alejandra's first cousin. “We grew up together. His life was very hard. He was five years old when his brother was murdered and soon after he lost his father who could not overcome the loss of that son, ”Julio says in dialogue with Presentes. 

"'La Power' was tremendous," says Claudinna and in the midst of sadness she laughs remembering her friend. “We knew her name was Alejandra but nobody called her that, she was always 'La Power'. And it lived up to the name. It was a whirlwind. Full of strength and joy. Of those people with whom you can not be angry. 

" Every death is a setback for the community"
All the people who remember Alejandra describes her as fun, happy, supportive and committed. “She was a girl who lived like no one 'now', without major projections. Get the mango now, enjoy now because we don't know what tomorrow is.  His death is a blow for all of us and a setback for the community because each achievement in conquering our rights seems like a small step when one of us is murdered, ”Claudinna concludes. 

Police sources confirmed to Presentes that the results of the autopsy are awaited. For now, the images of the security cameras are being analyzed, both from the public thoroughfare and from the commercial premises in the area. 


Photo: MPF
The place where Alejandra was murdered is a kind of housing complex where most of the people who rent are trans. “That place means a lot to us, because in Tucuman it is the only accessible and central place where girls can rent without so many complications and not only live, but also work. It is very strong that at this time that this place represents the death of a colleague, ”Rukone laments. 

Yesterday the WhatsApps of the friends replicated the message and the request of Justice: “The death of a trans is a loss for our entire group, since day by day it passes without having comprehensive policies that protect us, it is one less trans: State is Responsible! We demand that Alejandra's transfemicide be clarified and that there be Justice for her. Fly high butterfly ... The state is responsible. Comprehensive Trans Law NOW! Without trans, there is NOT ONE LESS. JUSTICE BY ALEJANDRA POWER ”.

A hate crime against LGBT + people every three days in Argentina

Between January 1 and June 30 of this year, 69 LGBTIQ + people were attacked, murdered, or abandoned by the State.

Read more

All our content is freely accessible. To continue doing independent, inclusive and rigorous journalism, we need your help. You can collaborate  here .




"In the neighborhood they called her mother": pain for Alejandra's transfemicide
Request for justice
Alejandra Benítez, the trans woman murdered this morning, was much loved in the April 2 neighborhood for her solidarity actions and because she sponsored those who were beginning their transition. The distress of his neighbors and the request for justice from a family that has already suffered a violent loss: "They say it is a man who has shot him."

05 Nov 2020 - 21:58

Alejandra Benítez, victim of transfemicide.



The murderer of the trans woman would be a wealthy businessman: he is on the run
Friday, November 06, 2020 12:38

The victim was murdered at dawn yesterday on Av. Roca y Ayacucho.



A businessman from Salta would be the main suspect in the transfemicide of Alejandra Benitez. The 30-year-old would have been a client of the victim. An argument between the two ended in the fatal outcome.

While firm clues are being followed to find the perpetrator of the crime, the members of the Homicide Division of the Police hijacked the suspect's car and motorcycle. It was in the framework of a raid that was carried out on the morning of this Friday in a building on 700 Rioja street, in the South District of the Capital.

The incident occurred around 5 a.m. last Thursday, on Ayacucho Street and Roca Avenue. “Alerted by an operator of the 911 Emergency System, members of the Urban Patrol quickly arrived at the scene and found the lifeless body of a trans woman on the sidewalk. They immediately guarded the place until our specialized team and the staff of the Public Prosecutor's Office arrived, ”said the Chief of the Homicide Division, Commissioner Diego Bernachi.

The fugitive would be a member of a wealthy family with numerous properties in our province and in Salta. Justice has already issued an arrest warrant.


This morning [9th November] a rally was held in front of the Government House to demand justice for the transvesticide of Alejandra “ La Power ” Benítez. It is the third mobilization in less than a month that is carried out as a result of the consequences of sexist violence and the lack of containment of the State in the face of these crimes.
At 10:30 am on Monday, Alejandra Benítez's family and friends gathered in front of the government house. Feminist and diversity social organizations accompanied with flags and posters.

La Power , as her friends called her, was the victim of a brutal transvesticide at dawn on November 5 , on Avenida Roca and Ayacucho. In just five days, his family had to resort to the street, exposing themselves to the contagion of covid 19 and above all, exposing the pain to raw flesh under the strong sun of Tucumán.

The lack of containment by the State systematically violates the trans community and exposes them to the fiercest violence night after night. And even more, in a continuity of violence, it throws families into the pain and uneasiness of having to go out on the street, of crying and asking for justice in the same act.

There are so many deaths due to patriarchal violence that there is already a kind of implicit protocol among those who are dedicated to struggles against violence . The megaphone, the posters and the meeting point are practically a routine, so naturalized, that it helps to remain standing while a whole family is in pieces.

In this scenario, visibility seems to be the best tool for protection and seeking justice. We also naturalize that the lives of women in themselves do not matter as much as it should, and that it is necessary to go out and scream, put a face on it, recover through images that humanity that a murderer sought to take away.

Alejandra Power Benitez was the daughter, friend, aunt and partner of many people who were there. Justice is not going to bring it back, but the State should be there to respond and contain it.

The pain exposed in the mass media does not stop, like a macabre spectacle of exclusion visibility.

“We want you to say the name of the murderer, why don't you say who he is? Why didn't we see her face as if we are seeing Alejandra's face? ” Abigail Andreo , a trans activist, shouted . 

“We demand justice for Alejandra, we demand that the State show its face. Why is the son of a businessman hiding his identity? There is a shattered mother, a whole shattered family ”, denounces Laura Moreira , sister Cynthia, another young trans woman from Tucuman murdered in February 2018, a case that still awaits justice.

One of the largest newspapers in the province outlined a false theory about Alejandra's crime within hours of her crime . More than one medium spoke of "homicide" without realizing that transvesticide is the correct way of calling these crimes, and in more than one place they refer to the masculine language when a trans woman is murdered. 

Those same media crowd on the faces of a mother demanding justice, and seek to expose even the smallest detail of the most private pain that we all should have.

The right to mourn our loved ones in privacy is also being violated, because no one has any confidence in the institutions of the State after a crime of these characteristics. 



"RICKY" arrested the accused of the transfemicide of Alejandra Benítez
He was accused of committing the crime that killed the young woman on Thursday, November 5 at dawn, in the area of ​​Ayacucho Street and Roca Avenue.

Ten days after Alejandra Estefanía Benítez's transfemicide, personnel from the Homicide Division managed to arrest the accused of the crime at dawn this Wednesday. It is  "Ricky" , identified as the author of the shot.

The Director General of Criminal Investigations, Inspector  Jorge Dib,  reported that moments after midnight, the 33-year-old man was detained by personnel from the division in charge of Commissioner  Diego Bernachi , and placed at the disposal of the Homicide II Fiscal Unit ° , of the prosecutor  Carlos Sale .

The incident occurred around 5 am on Thursday, November 5, on Ayacucho Street and Roca Avenue.  Alerted by an operator of the 911 Emergency System, members of the Urban Patrol arrived at the scene and  found the lifeless body of the 24-year-old transgender girl on the sidewalk.

According to the first investigations, the suspect, who first moved in a car and then on a motorcycle, fired shots with a firearm at the victim and a man who was with her on the sidewalk, who was assisted at the Hospital Health Center and is out of danger.

The following day, personnel from the Homicide Division carried out several raids in the framework of the investigation and  managed to seize a 9mm caliber pistol, a 22mm caliber carbine,  numerous ammunition and ballistic elements and a cell phone. In addition, the suspect's car and motorcycle were seized at another address.

http://elsigloweb.com/2020/11/11/detuvieron-ricky-el-acusado-del-transfemicidio-de-alejandra-benitez/

https://lanotatucuman.com/travesticidio-de-alejandra-benitez-lagrimas-frente-a-la-casa-de-gobierno/tucuman/09/11/2020/53283/

https://www.lagacetasalta.com.ar/nota/145414/actualidad/quien-empresario-salteno-sospechado-matar-joven-trans-tucuman.html

https://lanotatucuman.com/desde-ayelen-gomez-hasta-el-travesticidio-de-alejandra-benitez-los-derechos-que-no-llegan/tucuman/07/11/2020/53248/

https://lanotatucuman.com/convocan-a-una-marcha-por-el-travesticidio-de-alejandra-benitez/actualidad/06/11/2020/53211/

https://www.contextotucuman.com/nota/209151/el-asesino-de-la-mujer-trans-seria-un-empresario-salteno-esta-profugo.html

http://www.tucumanoticias.com.ar/noticia/actualidad/transfemicidios-en-los-allanamientos-secuestran-armas-y-municiones-215520.html

https://www.eltucumano.com/noticia/actualidad/268008/en-el-barrio-le-decian-mama-dolor-por-el-trasnfemicidio-de-alejandra

https://www.contextotucuman.com/nota/209151/el-asesino-de-la-mujer-trans-seria-un-acaudalado-empresario-esta-profugo.html

https://noticiasporelmundo.com/noticias/asesinan-a-trans-y-balean-a-su-amigo-frente-a-su-casa-noticias-argentina

https://agenciapresentes.org/2020/11/06/transfemicidio-en-tucuman-alejandra-tenia-34-anos-y-le-dispararon-a-quemarropa/

https://www.elancasti.com.ar/policiales/2020/11/6/asesinaron-balazos-una-joven-mujer-448954.html

https://lanotatucuman.com/travesticidio-en-tucuman-alejandra-power-benitez-fue-asesinada-a-balazos/tucuman/05/11/2020/53149/

https://www.lagaceta.com.ar/nota/867771/actualidad/transfemicidio-tucuman-joven-fue-asesinada-confuso-episodio.html
