Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-07T08:36:34+01:00

====== Antonella Garcia Ramirez (Guayaquil - 6 Oct 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 07 October 2020
@violence



Antonella García Ramírez
51
2020_10_06_Antonella-García-Ramirez.jpg
https://www.vistazo.com/seccion/actualidad-nacional/mujer-trans-fue-brutalmente-asesinada-dentro-de-su-casa-en-guayaquil
6 Oct 2020
Guayaquil
Guayas
Ecuador
stabbed


Antonella García Ramírez was stabbed in her home in Guayaquil, Guayas (Ecuador) on 6 Oct 2020.

She was 51. #SayHerName #TransLivesMatter #TDoR


[she was a hairdresser, and ran her business from home]

The Ecuadorian Federation of LGBT Organizations denounced this Tuesday, October 6, the brutal murder of Antonella RG. Her body was found with her dog, in the middle of a pool of blood and with eight stab wounds throughout the body, including in the mouth and eyes.

The incident occurred in the Las Orquídeas sector, in the city of Guayaquil, and according to the Centro Psico Trans, it would be a transfemicide.

According to the LGBT rights organization, the woman was killed by her ex-partner, with whom she had a relationship for several years. The subject suffered a serious drug addiction, for which he was admitted to a Rehabilitation Center, but he escaped from the place and went to the victim's house to obtain money.

The first versions of the event indicate that Antonella did not agree to the pressure of the subject, who decided to end his life on October 4.

Also read: Who was Javier Viteri, the young man stabbed 89 times in Arenillas?

During the removal of the body, the theft of cell phones, money and other valuables belonging to the victim was found.

The subject would have been apprehended on October 5.

“We call on the authorities, especially the State Attorney General's Office, so that his ex-partner and murderer are charged with hate crime that allow him to be sentenced to the maximum penalty. Although it is true that transfemicide does not exist in our legal framework, its characteristics are evident that leads us to this hypothesis, ”requested the Ecuadorian Federation of LGBT Organizations through a statement.


The cries for help that came from inside a corner house woke up the residents of block 1411 of the Las Orquídeas citadel, in the north of Guayaquil .

Hours later, the residents learned that a murder had occurred in that building. The mortal victim is Antonio Alberto García Ramírez, 51, who identified himself as the trans man from Guayaquil, Antonella. She was found face down by her relatives and bathed in blood.

Lieutenant Colonel Francisco Hernández , head of the National Directorate of Crimes Against Violent Life and Death (Dinased), reported that there was a sentimental relationship between the victim and the alleged murderer.

Antonio Alberto García (Antonella) and José Carlos Jácome had two years of relationship.Antonio Alberto García (Antonella) and José Carlos Jácome had two years of relationship. COURTESY.
“There was a fairly close relationship between them . The trigger for the violence would be jealousy on the part of the alleged suspect. He was apprehended, ”Hernández reported.

Suspect arrested

The Dinased officer indicated that the suspect , José Carlos Jácome Camacho, was arrested in flagrante delicto and placed under the orders of the authorities. The alleged perpetrator was captured in the Voluntad de Dios cooperative , in the northwest of Guayaquil.

Jealousy would have motivated the crime. The sharps weapon was not found at the scene ”.
Francisco Hernánde, head of the Dinased Zone 8
The man confessed to the police that he could not control his anger and that is why he killed her.

Diane Rodríguez, director of the Silhouette X Association and president of the Ecuadorian Federation of LGBT Organizations I, said that Antonella frequently participated in the organization's activities and that is why they were aware of the continuous problems with her partner, with whom she was two years old. Of relationship.

“We learned that this man was in a center for addicts and escaped. He appeared at her home and asked for money for his vices, she refused and stabbed her several times, in the chest and in the face. Her body was left with her pet, ”said Rodríguez.

García is veiled at the home of her relatives, in the western suburb of Guayaquil. 

José Carlos Jácome was arrested as a suspect in the crime of his partner.José Carlos Jácome was arrested as a suspect in the crime of his partner. COURTESY.
He will be tried for murder

The suspect recorded two antecedents for theft in 2017.now faces a new process judicia l for murder, an offense under Article 144 of the Code Organic Integral Penal (COIP) and that could happen being held from 22 to 26 years.

https://www.vistazo.com/seccion/actualidad-nacional/mujer-trans-fue-brutalmente-asesinada-dentro-de-su-casa-en-guayaquil

https://web.archive.org/web/20201007070708/https://www.extra.ec/noticia/actualidad/apunalo-pareja-transesual-orquideas-guayaquil-42715.html
