Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-15T03:20:11+01:00

====== Ariadna Ojeda (13 Jun 2020) ======
Created Monday 15 June 2020




Ariadna Ojeda
https://www.elespectador.com/noticias/politica/alerta-por-crimen-de-mujeres-trans-en-costa-caribe-pese-a-cuarentena/
13 Jun 2020
Santa Marta
Colombia
stabbed

Ariadna Ojeda was stabbed in Santa Marta (Colombia) on 13 Jun 2020.


A trans woman was killed with several stab wounds to the body. Her body was found by relatives who entered her home located in the Cristo Rey neighborhood, in the south of Santa Marta.

This is Kennedy Miguel Barros Ojeda, a native of Riohacha, La Guajira, known as Ariadna in the LGTBI community, who was found lying on the floor, with a bloody chest, in his room.

The event occurred on calle 147th with carerra 8C in the Cristo Rey neighborhood and, according to the version of several neighbors, his body was found by his relatives around 10:45 pm on Saturday.

Barros Ojeda's family immediately alerted the Metropolitan Police quadrant, who cordoned off the site and began preliminary investigations.

Ariadna was known to meet with a person at her home and in the course of the meeting her death occurred.

"It is a case with a sharps weapon inside a house, everything indicates that it was a personal situation, who realizes the event is one of the relatives, we are investigating who was at home and what happened", said Colonel Oscar Solarte, head of the Mesan.

CTI officials from the Prosecutor's Office were in charge of the technical inspection of the body, which led to the local morgue. The victim's family asks that their crime not go unpunished and that the person responsible be captured.

Alert for crime of trans women in the Caribbean coast despite quarantine
Jun 14 2020 - 11:08 pmBy: National Editorial Office

The Caribbean Affirmative Corporation raised the alarms for the murder of two trans women in Santa Marta and Barranquilla in the last hours.

The victims were identified as Brandy Carolina (left), murdered in Barranquilla, and Ariadna, in Santa Marta.  / Courtesy Caribbean Affirmative

The Caribbean Affirmative Corporation , dedicated to working for the recognition of the rights of sexual diversity and gender identities, denounced this Sunday that two trans women were murdered this weekend, despite the social isolation and confinement that persists in the country on account of the health emergency caused by the coronavirus.

The first case was registered on Saturday night in Santa Marta. According to the report, the victim - identified as Ariadna - was found dead in her home in the Cristo Rey sector , south of the capital of Magdalena. The body had multiple injuries caused by a stabbing short weapon.

“Those who knew her describe her with her great personality, sense of responsibility, love towards life and recognize her as a peaceful person. His voice was silenced by the acts of a person who unscrupulously cut his life, causing his wonderful light to be extinguished, "said Caribe Affirmativo.

According to the organization, despite the social isolation and the course of the commemoration of LGBTI pride in the Caribbean, acts of violence continue to be reported against trans women and other people in the LGBT community.

“Affirmative Caribbean is very concerned that social isolation has revealed the systematic nature of violence against LGBT people, with an emphasis on lesbian and trans women, recording the absence of preventive policies on violence with differentiated approaches that understand and prevent violence based on prejudice based on sexual orientation, gender identity or expression ”.

With this crime, added the organization, there are already three homicides of women murdered in Magdalena since social isolation began. Given this, they urged the Prosecutor's Office to carry out an investigation analyzing the possible case of feminicide based on Ariadna's gender identity, also taking into account patterns that would evidence violence by prejudice.

In turn, they asked the Magdalena Governorate and the Santa Marta Mayor's Office to accompany and devise actions to reduce these attacks, as well as an action plan to deal with care and prevention routes for these cases.

On the other hand, Caribe Affirmativo turned on the alerts for the crime of another trans woman, identified as Brandy Carolina, in Barranquilla. The report indicates that the woman was attacked several times with a knife and that one of the attacks was carried out at her neck. The events occurred in the La Chinita neighborhood.

Precisely, in that area to the south-west of the city, the crime of Paloma, a trans woman, and Lidia Gamero, a lesbian woman, had also been reported on April 16 and March 26 of this year, respectively. "The area has become one of the most violent for LBT women in the capital of the Atlantic," they indicated.

“Brandy Carolina had been in detention centers twice, the first time in Duitama (Boyacá) and the second time in the La Modelo Prison in Barranquilla, in 2016 and 2018. In both cases, she denounced cruel, inhuman and degrading practices due to her identity. gender, including, specifically in the case of Barranquilla, was asked to assume a male gender identity, "the organization explained.

ADVERTISING
In addition to analyzing femicide as a hypothesis in this crime, given its gender identity as a woman and whether the violence had prejudiced motives, the organization asked the Mayor's Office to pay special attention to guaranteeing the rights of LGBTI people in isolation days. social, particularly to trans women in the sectors of the city where they are most vulnerable, "since not only with the increase in homicides, but also with acts of violence and denial of rights, complaints have increased in recent days" .

The agency also drew attention to three other violent deaths - two homicides and femicides and another yet to be defined - in other areas of the city so far this year: Sugey Guerra, a lesbian woman, in the San José neighborhood, on 9 of June; Alfredo Cassiani, gay man, in the Las Llores neighborhood, on March 30, and Daniel Osorno in the El Bosque Prison. Additionally, in the Atlantic, two other LGBT people have been killed.

Thus, at the level of the Caribbean region, two murders of gay men have been reported in Valledupar (Cesar) , and another two of lesbian women in Magdalena, one in Zona Bananera and the other in Ciénaga. In Bolívar, meanwhile, there was also a feminicide of a lesbian woman in Cartagena, and two others in the department. Thus, this has been one of the most violent years for LGBTI people, with 13 murders of openly LGBTI people.

https://www.homosensual.com/lgbt/matan-a-11-personas-lgbtq-en-colombia/

https://www.elespectador.com/noticias/politica/alerta-por-crimen-de-mujeres-trans-en-costa-caribe-pese-a-cuarentena/

https://www.elheraldo.co/magdalena/asesinan-mujer-trans-en-santa-marta-734502
