Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-15T03:19:54+01:00

====== Brandy Carolina Brown (14 Jun 2020) ======
Created Monday 15 June 2020





Brandy Carolina Brown
30
https://www.elespectador.com/noticias/politica/alerta-por-crimen-de-mujeres-trans-en-costa-caribe-pese-a-cuarentena/
14 Jun 2020
Barranquilla
Colombia
stabbed

Brandy Carolina Brown was stabbed in Barranquilla (Colombia) on 14 Jun 2020.

She was 30.


In the identity card of the person who was attacked by a dagger this Sunday morning in the La Chinita neighborhood, the name of Anderson Albeiro Ramírez Molina, 30, appears . However, in the neighborhood they knew that the victim of the assault was Brandy Carolina Brown , since that's what she called herself since she transitioned to a woman several years ago .

Everything happened after a party that lasted all night on Saturday and lasted until dawn on Sunday. Brandy Carolina and several of her friends, as reported by the Police, had been consuming liquor, but at approximately 6:20 in the morning a fight began.

After arguing, they would have been beaten and later a subject, whom the authorities identified as Esneider, took out a white weapon and with it caused a fatal wound to the neck of Brandy Carolina .

In a hurry, those close to the victim tried to transfer her to a healthcare center, but they could not make much progress, as she fell dead on the pavement. They immediately called the police to report what had happened.

Apparently, Brandy Carolina's life was framed in wanderings with her friends and many parties, according to some of her neighbors, but also, according to the authorities, in the criminal life.

With his ID number, at least seven court records appear for the authorities' registry for different crimes such as theft and attacks on public servants.

In November 2016, she was captured for theft and personal injury . At the time, the Police reported that the case occurred on Calle 19 with Carrera 3 when a man was intercepted by several criminals who stole a gold chain and 800 thousand pesos in cash. The robbery was thwarted by patrollers and at that time Brandy Carolina was captured.

After overcoming that judicial process, he traveled to the department of Boyacá, but it was also news there. According to what was reported by various media, a quarrel occurred in a transportation terminal in the municipality of Duitama in October 2018.

Several policemen, including an auxiliary, went to attend to the case. It was when, supposedly, Brandy Carolina bit the assistant several times, leaving him injured. They then captured her for assaults on a public servant.

Apparently, the La Chinita neighborhood received the arrival of Brandy Carolina a few days ago . Her body was transferred to Legal Medicine where they hope that her relatives will provide the necessary documents for her delivery.

Alert for crime of trans women in the Caribbean coast despite quarantine
Jun 14 2020 - 11:08 pmBy: National Editorial Office

The Caribbean Affirmative Corporation raised the alarms for the murder of two trans women in Santa Marta and Barranquilla in the last hours.

The victims were identified as Brandy Carolina (left), murdered in Barranquilla, and Ariadna, in Santa Marta.  / Courtesy Caribbean Affirmative

The Caribbean Affirmative Corporation , dedicated to working for the recognition of the rights of sexual diversity and gender identities, denounced this Sunday that two trans women were murdered this weekend, despite the social isolation and confinement that persists in the country on account of the health emergency caused by the coronavirus.

The first case was registered on Saturday night in Santa Marta. According to the report, the victim - identified as Ariadna - was found dead in her home in the Cristo Rey sector , south of the capital of Magdalena. The body had multiple injuries caused by a stabbing short weapon.

“Those who knew her describe her with her great personality, sense of responsibility, love towards life and recognize her as a peaceful person. His voice was silenced by the acts of a person who unscrupulously cut his life, causing his wonderful light to be extinguished, "said Caribe Affirmativo.

According to the organization, despite the social isolation and the course of the commemoration of LGBTI pride in the Caribbean, acts of violence continue to be reported against trans women and other people in the LGBT community.

“Affirmative Caribbean is very concerned that social isolation has revealed the systematic nature of violence against LGBT people, with an emphasis on lesbian and trans women, recording the absence of preventive policies on violence with differentiated approaches that understand and prevent violence based on prejudice based on sexual orientation, gender identity or expression ”.

With this crime, added the organization, there are already three homicides of women murdered in Magdalena since social isolation began. Given this, they urged the Prosecutor's Office to carry out an investigation analyzing the possible case of feminicide based on Ariadna's gender identity, also taking into account patterns that would evidence violence by prejudice.

In turn, they asked the Magdalena Governorate and the Santa Marta Mayor's Office to accompany and devise actions to reduce these attacks, as well as an action plan to deal with care and prevention routes for these cases.

On the other hand, Caribe Affirmativo turned on the alerts for the crime of another trans woman, identified as Brandy Carolina, in Barranquilla. The report indicates that the woman was attacked several times with a knife and that one of the attacks was carried out at her neck. The events occurred in the La Chinita neighborhood.

Precisely, in that area to the south-west of the city, the crime of Paloma, a trans woman, and Lidia Gamero, a lesbian woman, had also been reported on April 16 and March 26 of this year, respectively. "The area has become one of the most violent for LBT women in the capital of the Atlantic," they indicated.

“Brandy Carolina had been in detention centers twice, the first time in Duitama (Boyacá) and the second time in the La Modelo Prison in Barranquilla, in 2016 and 2018. In both cases, she denounced cruel, inhuman and degrading practices due to her identity. gender, including, specifically in the case of Barranquilla, was asked to assume a male gender identity, "the organization explained.

ADVERTISING
In addition to analyzing femicide as a hypothesis in this crime, given its gender identity as a woman and whether the violence had prejudiced motives, the organization asked the Mayor's Office to pay special attention to guaranteeing the rights of LGBTI people in isolation days. social, particularly to trans women in the sectors of the city where they are most vulnerable, "since not only with the increase in homicides, but also with acts of violence and denial of rights, complaints have increased in recent days" .

The agency also drew attention to three other violent deaths - two homicides and femicides and another yet to be defined - in other areas of the city so far this year: Sugey Guerra, a lesbian woman, in the San José neighborhood, on 9 of June; Alfredo Cassiani, gay man, in the Las Llores neighborhood, on March 30, and Daniel Osorno in the El Bosque Prison. Additionally, in the Atlantic, two other LGBT people have been killed.

Thus, at the level of the Caribbean region, two murders of gay men have been reported in Valledupar (Cesar) , and another two of lesbian women in Magdalena, one in Zona Bananera and the other in Ciénaga. In Bolívar, meanwhile, there was also a feminicide of a lesbian woman in Cartagena, and two others in the department. Thus, this has been one of the most violent years for LGBTI people, with 13 murders of openly LGBTI people.

https://www.homosensual.com/lgbt/matan-a-11-personas-lgbtq-en-colombia/

https://www.elheraldo.co/judicial/tres-homicidios-empezando-el-toque-de-queda-en-barranquilla-734443

https://www.elespectador.com/noticias/politica/alerta-por-crimen-de-mujeres-trans-en-costa-caribe-pese-a-cuarentena/

https://www.elheraldo.co/judicial/con-arma-blanca-asesinan-mujer-trans-en-la-chinita-734400

