Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-11-30T06:48:47+00:00

====== Cristina Hernandez Castillo (Jaltipan - 27 Nov 2020) ======
Created Monday 30 November 2020
@violence




Cristina Hernández Castillo ("La Bimbo")
26
27 Nov 2020
Jáltipan
Veracruz
Mexico
shot


Cristina Hernández Castillo was shot by unidentified assailants in Jáltipan, Veracruz, (Mexico) on 27 Nov 2020.

She was 26.





In Jáltipan, they murder a young worker 'La Bimbo'
In Jáltipan, they assassinate a young worker La Bimbo
In a private home on Leandro Valle street in the San Miguel neighborhood , the young Cristina Hernández Castillo, better known as La Bimbo , was executed, at a time when she was carrying debris for which she was hired.

According to the version, Cristina Hernández Castillo, 26 years old, working as a worker and with a known address in the San Cristóbal neighborhood, carried out work of hauling rubble through a wheelbarrow, from the outside to the patio of that address, located in Leandro Valle Street, between Sotomayor Harriman and Nacional de la Colonia San Miguel .

Two men arrived on a motorcycle, one entered the home and shot the woman in the back four times, who was left lying in agony. The hitmen in the same unit in which they arrived fled the scene.

Cristina Hernández, alias La Bimbo , wore denim pants and an olive green shirt, her body had four gunshot wounds, two to the head, one to the thorax and the other to the abdomen.

His sister, who was in the place, could not believe what happened and trying to save her life requested help, arriving at the place elements of the Municipal Police and then Civil Protection, who when reviewing the body confirmed that the woman he had no vital signs.

An 18-year-old girl identified the now-extinct woman as her sentimental partner.

The scene was cordoned off, and elements of the Ministerial Police, personnel from Expert Services and the Acayucan Prosecutor's Office subsequently arrived, who carried out the proceedings in the place and then, the body was lifted for transfer to the Forensic Medical Service (Semefo) from Acayucan.



Cristina, trans woman murdered in Jáltipan

She was identified as Cristina Hernández, 26, received at least 4 bullet hits. It could be a hate crime
By Fluvio Cesar Martínez | Saturday, November 28, 2020 |
JALTIPAN, SEE. - Of at least four bullet wounds, a  young woman  identified as Cristina Hernández Castillo was  murdered while working  in the  municipality  of Jáltipan,  south  of  Veracruz . His  murder  comes amid a wave of crimes that occurred in different  municipalities  of the  south  of  Veracruz  during the week.

Reports indicate that Cristina, a 26-year-old trans woman , was  carrying  debris from a private home on Leandro Valle Street in the San Miguel neighborhood, when two  men  arrived aboard a  motorcycle.

One of them shot the woman in the back four times, and she was left lying on the ground, dying instantly. After the attack, the  criminals  fled  in the same unit in which they arrived, with an  unknown destination .

Minutes later, the police  and  Expert Services authorities   came to lift the body of the  young woman  known as "La Bimbo" and who was identified by her  relatives , since she is a resident of the same  municipality .

It said Cristina belongs to the LGBTTTIQ people   of the  south  of  Veracruz , although it was not confirmed whether his  murder  corresponds to a  hate crime .

From January to August, 19 hate crimes have been registered against members of the LGBTTTI community in the state of  Veracruz , which has ranked first in the nation since May, according to the Observatory  of Hate Crimes .

Just this week, seven murders were registered in municipalities in the  south  of  Veracruz : 4 in Coatzacoalcos, 1 Minatitlan, 1 Cosoleacaque and the last one in Jaltipan where Cristina lost her life; With which once again this high-impact crime is triggered in the region.

Cristina is murdered while working in a house in Jáltipan
She was identified as Cristina Hernández, 26; received at least 4 bullet holes. It could be an LGBTTTIQ hate crime
Fluvio Cesar Martínez / Correspondent
11/28/2020
19:21 hrs
Hear
Cristina is murdered while working in a house in Jáltipan
JALTIPAN, SEE. - Of at least four bullet wounds, a young woman identified as Cristina Hernández Castillo was murdered while she was working in the municipality of Jaltipan, south of Veracruz . His murder took place this 27 November, amid a wave of crimes that occurred in different municipalities of the south of Veracruz during the week.

Reports indicate that Cristina, 26, who was part of the LGBT community , was carrying debris at a private home on Leandro Valle Street in the San Miguel neighborhood, when two men arrived on a motorcycle .

One of them shot the woman in the back four times, and she was left lying on the ground, dying instantly. After the attack, the criminals fled in the same unit in which they arrived, with an unknown destination .

Minutes later, the police and Expert Services authorities came to lift the body of the young woman known as "La Bimbo" and who was identified by her relatives , since she is a resident of the same municipality .

It said Cristina belongs to the people LGBTTTIQ of the south of Veracruz , although it was not confirmed whether his murder corresponds to a hate crime .

From January to August, 19 hate crimes have been registered against members of the LGBTTTI community in the state of Veracruz , which has ranked first in the nation since May, according to the Observatory of Hate Crimes .

Just this week, seven murders were registered in municipalities in the south of Veracruz : 4 in Coatzacoalcos, 1 Minatitlan, 1 Cosoleacaque and the last one in Jaltipan where Cristina lost her life; With which once again this high-impact crime is triggered in the region.

https://diariodelistmo.com/policiaca/en-jaltipan-asesinan-a-joven-obrera-la-bimbo/50058520

https://veracruz.lasillarota.com/estados/asesinan-a-cristina-mientras-trabajaba-en-una-casa-en-jaltipan-/460023

http://www.e-veracruz.mx/nota/2020-11-28/seguridad/cristina-mujer-trans-asesinada-en-jaltipan

https://imagendelgolfo.mx/policiaca/en-jaltipan-asesinan-a-joven-obrera-la-bimbo/50058520

https://twitter.com/tv_yazi/status/1332899141517676545

https://www.facebook.com/bustamantejaziel77/posts/1093738964410400

https://www.facebook.com/Veracruzalinstant/posts/1694560787383896

https://www.facebook.com/permalink.php?story_fbid=538013967086137&id=100502197503985

