Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-28T08:11:07+01:00

====== Francesca Cornejo (Cordoba - 26 Sep 2020) ======
Created Monday 28 September 2020
@violence



Francesca Cornejo
63
26 Sep 2020
Córdoba
Argentina
murdered


Monday, September 28, 2020 - 00:11
The scene shot grief, anger and absolute consternation. The body was lying on the floor of the room, next to the bed. The hands and legs were tied with rags and clothing. The house, a building that has fallen into disrepair for many years and with essential services suspended, was completely untidy.

This is how Francesca Cornejo, a 63-year-old trans woman, was found murdered on Saturday, who lived alone in her house in the Parque Liceo 1ª Sección neighborhood, on the northern outskirts of the city of Córdoba. Some neighbors knew her by her previous name.

Although the forensic reports are not yet complete, which allow determining how she finally died, judicial and police sources confirmed to La Voz that he is facing a homicide.

Due to certain characteristics of the event, the main hypothesis is that it would have been a homicide on the occasion of home robbery.

For now, according to progress, the criminal figure will revolve around that and would not turn to a transvesticide.

There are neither detainees nor accused. Everything indicates that the murderers would have been at least two people.

The case is being investigated by investigations of the Police Robbery and Theft Division, under the directives of the prosecutor Patricia García Ramírez.

“It is a homicide and the causes are being analyzed. The victim was tied hands and feet, and there was a disorder in the house, "said the judicial official, in contact with this newspaper." The case is being thoroughly investigated and for now I can not give more news, "she added.

Francesca's murder caused logical consternation in the neighborhood, given that she had been a neighbor for years, but mainly in the organizations and the LGTBQI + community.

“Robberies and attacks of this type on elderly trans women, like her, are more than usual in Córdoba. They take advantage of the situation. The victims are transgender people who are in a situation of extreme vulnerability, alone, helpless ... And these attacks end up, ”said Ivanna Aguilera, a leader of the national trans movement.

"We condemn the incident and demand that the perpetrators be investigated and found," added Ivanna.

Everything was discovered last Saturday around 8 pm, after a brother of the trans woman arrived at the house on Isaacs and Constancio Vigil streets, a few blocks from Juan B. Justo avenue.

Upon entering, since no one was answering (the door was open), the man found himself with horror: in the room lay Francesca's body. Within minutes, the area was filled with police.

The trans woman had both her feet and her hands tied with rags and clothes. She was lying next to her bed.

“He had no visible wounds, nor any element on his neck, as it transpired. The body was sent to the morgue for forensics to determine what happened. We are talking about a person who would have had a previous illness, was not in good health ”, explained a senior source of the cause.

"It is not ruled out that it has had a heart attack, the product of the stress of a serious situation such as a home assault at the hands of criminals, we suspect," added another informant consulted.

Francesca lived in more than precarious conditions. The house was in disarray and they are investigating whether he was collecting a disability pension.

What was recorded in the investigators' notebook is that young people used to come to the house.

Throughout yesterday, police investigators were "combing" the neighborhood in search of possible witnesses, someone who can provide data and faces. In parallel, and among other investigative measures, cameras are analyzed.

To all this, the house was appraised by members of the Judicial Police in search of evidence or elements that may arise and that serve to clarify the case.

From the areas of the investigation it was indicated that, in principle, a hate crime of a sexual nature is ruled out. Everything is propped up around an eventual home assault that ended in the worst way, according to different official sources that were consulted.

“These cases have been very common, unfortunately. They are thieves who take advantage of the victims and enter to rob them. In the framework of this violence, they end up killing. It should not be ruled out that they have been under the influence of some substance, such as drugs ... It is common, "remarked one researcher.

For their part, residents of Parque Liceo 1ª denounced a pressing situation of insecurity in the neighborhood due to, they indicated, an unstoppable wave of assaults on homes and street robberies.

“It is no man's land here. We are holding permanent meetings in the neighborhood for the robberies, ”said a neighbor from the sector.

Francesca was a well-known neighbor in the area. They used to see her often in front of her home. She had certain mobility problems.

“She was sick, she had health problems, it was difficult for her to move. He lived in poverty ... How scary is this, ”said another resident of the neighborhood.

Ivanna Aguilera, a member of the trans movement, indicated that she did not know Francesca. “There are many colleagues who, without work and without containment, and being marginalized, are forced to prostitute themselves. And many are already old and must do it at home, to survive. There, they are attacked, "he said.

The crime that occurred in Parque Liceo 1ª reminded many and many of the femicide of Azul Montoro, the young trans woman who was stabbed to death in an apartment in the Center, in 2017. Justice ruled that it was a femicide and sentenced Fabián Casiva to life imprisonment.

Anyway, there are differences between one case and another. In Francesca's crime, they insist on Justice, everything indicates that it would have been a robbery.

"This crime, deep down, is due to the ineffectiveness, neglect and negligence of the state," Aguilera said.

Alejandro Salama, deputy director of Human Rights of Minorities of the Ministry of Justice of Córdoba, closely follows the progress of the case and the investigation.

Robberies against the defenseless. The cases started a couple of years ago. In recent times, the criminal phenomenon has spread in Córdoba and various parts of the country: assaults against adults who live alone in their homes. These robberies, committed by criminals who are often young, have resulted in homicides on numerous occasions. At this point, it is unfortunately common for victims, faced with the stress suffered by the situation, end up dying with heart attacks. Sometimes this is due to previously creeping diseases.

The case of Parque Liceo. Those investigating Francesca's crime pointed out that the case is being investigated as a robbery homicide; ruling out, for now, a sexual hate crime.

Similar case. In June 2020, Eduardo José Rodríguez, a 70-year-old pensioner who lived in precarious conditions in a house in the Ameghino neighborhood of Córdoba, was found murdered. I was gagged. He had been the victim of thieves. Four youths were arrested for the crime.

https://glaciarfm.com.ar/2020/09/28/crimen-una-mujer-trans-fue-hallada-asesinada-y-atada-de-pies-y-manos/

https://web.archive.org/web/20200928065734/https://www.lavoz.com.ar/sucesos/crimen-una-mujer-trans-fue-hallada-asesinada-y-atada-de-pies-y-manos

https://www.facebook.com/glaciarfm/posts/991813097910557
