Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-08-05T08:03:43+01:00

====== J. dos Santos Silva (Sao Bernardo - 30 Jun 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 05 August 2020
@violence


J. dos Santos Silva
[Jackson dos Santos Silva]
30 Jun 2020

Brazil
shot
(killer arrested after subssequent murder attempt)

The Civil Police of São Bernardo unveiled on Tuesday (4) a homicide consummated on June 30, after the accused tried against the life of a transvestite on Monday night (3), in Rua Banda, in Jardim do Sea.

According to the police, João Paulo do Nascimento, 42, allegedly went to the central region of the city in order to get revenge on the transvestite. According to the killer, he had been robbed by the victim last Sunday.

Information from the BO (police report), registered in the 2nd DP (Rudge Ramos) as a qualified homicide attempt, the author got off the passenger side of a silver HB20 parked in the neighborhood and walked towards the victim, making four shots. The transvestite was hit twice - once on the leg and once on the abdomen. The criminal fled afterwards. Rescued by the Military Police, the victim was taken to the Mário Covas State Hospital, in Santo André, and is not at risk of death.

Based on the address of the owner of the vehicle in the system and the location of the crime, the police established a possible escape route and started the search, successfully on Carlos Kapinski Street.

When they approached, the agents visualized Nascimento trying to hide the murder weapon, a Taurus revolver caliber 38 with the scraped numbering on the floor of the vehicle, and, after approaching, made the arrest of Nascimento, who assumed responsibility for the crime, exempting the fellow, who was released by the police.

Weapon and site expertise were requested. In possession of the weapon information, agents of the SHPP (Superintendence of Homicide and Protection of the Person) of the Deic (State Police of Criminal Investigations) of São Bernardo managed to unravel the murder of Jackson dos Santos Silva, also a transvestite, who died on June 30.

According to a record recorded at the 1st DP (Centro), the victim was found lying on Rua Carlos Miéle, Centro, dead, with four gunshot wounds.

https://www.dgabc.com.br/Noticia/3513102/policia-desvenda-morte-de-travesti-apos-criminoso-usar-a-mesma-arma-em-tentativa-de-novo-homicidio


