Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-07-25T07:37:10+01:00

====== Jade Medina and Samantha Ramos (Villa Hidalgo - 27 Jul 2020) ======
Created Sunday 25 July 2021
@violence


NOT ON TDOR LIST?


Jade Medina
23
27 Jul 2020 [body found 17 Sep 2020]
Villa Hidalgo
Jalisco
Mexico
murdered



Samantha Ramos
24
27 Jul 2020 [body found 17 Sep 2020]
Villa Hidalgo
Jalisco
Mexico
murdered

 
Jade, Samantha and Michelle, the murdered trans women that nobody sees
The murders of transsexual women are made invisible due to transphobia and the lack of training of the authorities, activists urge that there is legislation to investigate and condemn these hate crimes
Jade, Samantha and Michelle, the murdered trans women that nobody sees

Society 07/24/2021 14:50 Writing San Luis Potosí Updated 14:54
Julie Carrillo, a transsexual woman, arrived at the Jardin del Barrio de Tlaxcala with a flag with the colors blue, pink and white, on which were the names of comrades who have been murdered and to date her family is still awaiting justice.

Jade, Samantha, Michelle and Fabiola, all transsexual women, have been murdered during the administration of Juan Manuel Carreras López , in none of the cases have progress been reported, there are no answers for their relatives, much less convictions for those responsible.

On the afternoon of July 23, 2021, activists and members of the LGBT + community gathered in the Jardin del Barrio de Tlaxcala to demand an investigation with a gender and identity perspective by Fabiola Rivera , a transsexual woman murdered at dawn on July 21, 2021 in her address of the Valle Dorado neighborhood.

The name of Michelle , a transsexual adolescent, murdered two years ago in the south of the capital of Potosí, also appeared on the banners and slogans . At that time, the State Attorney General's Office reported:

“Everything arose on July 19, 2019, when PDI agents were informed about the discovery of the body of a lifeless male person, who wore a wig and showed signs of violence, this in Axis 104 and Chichimecas street ... "

This is not the first time that the Social Communication office of the State Attorney General's Office has revitalized and violated the right to identity of transsexual women. Hours after the murder of Fabiola Rivera, in a statement they stated that it was a male person; to try to amend the error in a second statement they stated:

"... the victim was a person who identified himself with a female gender identity before the civil registry." Taking away once again the right to identity.


Jade and Samantha
On July 27, 2020, 23-year-old Jade Medina and 24-year-old Samantha Ramos were deprived of their liberty in the municipality of Villa Hidalgo. Their relatives began looking for them and investigation folders were opened for their disappearance.

Two months later, on September 17, 2020, the bodies of Jade and Samantha were found in an uninhabited property in Villa de Arista. The authorities, without making an expert opinion or investigation, determined that it was a crime of a criminal group.

The murders of transsexual women are made invisible due to transphobia and the lack of training of the authorities, activists urge that there is legislation to investigate and condemn these hate crimes.

Julie Carrillo gives voice to her sisters, they were murdered and to date there is no clarification on her case, it was left adrift. "Nobody deserves to die this way, enough of transfeminicides."

https://sanluis.eluniversal.com.mx/sociedad/jade-samantha-y-michelle-las-mujeres-trans-asesinadas-que-nadie-ve
