Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-12-30T15:51:59+00:00

====== Jaheim Bella Pugh (Prichard - 13 Dec 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 30 December 2020
@violence



Jaheim Bella Pugh
19
2020_12_13_Jaheim-Bella-Pugh.jpg
https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2020/12/23/bella-pugh-killed-shot-dead-gender-non-conforming-teen/
13 Dec 2020
Prichard
Alabama
USA
30.738558,-88.0999607
shot
[killed while leaving a Christmas party on Rosedale Avenue]



Jaheim Bella Pugh was killed while leaving a Christmas party.

> Kudos to HRC for honoring Jaheim Bella Pugh, a murdered cisgender gay man on their TDoR page.
> 
> The trouble is that HRC identifies Jaheim Bella Pugh as a Gender Non-Conforming‘ person. While technically correct this term is easily conflated and misunderstood as it describes gender, not sex.
> 
> Jaheim Bella Pugh, according to his mother, was a 19-year-old cisgender gay man just beginning to learn who he was. Bella was the name of his new puppy which he adopted as his drag name.
> 
> After thorough research, I could not find anywhere that he self-identified as a gender non-conforming or transgender person. There was one person who posted a tribute identifying Bella as transgender but that has since been refuted by multiple sources.
> 
> The whole idea behind the TDoR project which honors our dead is to investigate with integrity each individual and how they died. This is critical so that we may know who they were. Prior to the first TDoR, a trans-peer-led initiative, those who murdered us were arrested but never served jail time for their crimes.


However, there is no honor in superimposing a narrative that fits your needs while intentionally disregarding facts about a person’s life and death.

Earlier this year quite unexpectedly Planet Trans was cited by HRC in an article that truthfully honored one of our dead.

I was understandably ecstatic. Not too many years ago a few of us brought HRC down to their knees protesting their obvious deception and greed. And it seemed to me with all that water passed under the bridge bygones could be bygones and with the new year, we could be allies.

I’m am easy touch when it comes to saving black lives vis-à-vis our shared history. So I published an article that I knew HRC would need to read to the middle of it to appreciate it for an olive branch extended.

Afterward, I reached out on Facebook and befriended Tori Cooper, HRC Director of Community Engagement for Transgender Justice Initiatives. She accepted my friend invite immediately but never responded to multiple attempts to communicate. This frustrated me so badly that I blocked them and later sent a friend request again which they accepted. They knew who I am but again no response to my messages.

*I have noticed since this all went down that Tori Cooper put a notice on her profile saying that she doesn’t respond to Facebook messages.

I was at the time working in cooperation with Pittsburgh Lesbian Correspondents (PGH) at their invite to ascertain an LGBTQI murder victim’s gender identity.
.
After emails went unanswered I called the LGBT center near the deceased house and spoke with a number of people at length, including the president, none of whom said that they had met or knew the deceased. The deceased was a well-known character in the area so I took their response as a request for privacy.

Since I couldn’t verify how this LGBTQI soul identified I didn’t run a story but, PGH lesbian Correspondents did.

PGH identified a dead LGBTQI person as a transgender woman without having verified that information. I felt that by doing so that they were outing the deceased for all we knew, incorrectly. I convened my concerns to PGH who basically told me to mind my own business. That article and many since have since gone viral.

I am relieved to see that neither HRC nor the TDoR has a transgender memorial page for Peaches.

But HRC did misidentify a murdered gay man. Jaheim Bella Pugh as “gender non-non conforming”. Despite my best efforts, HRC sourced planet transgender in that post.

What really infuriates me is that HRC did not mention in that article that his mother told us that he was a gay man, who just started to do drag. His sex and gender was male when he died, that is what we know. We learned about this after we published and had to rewrite the planet trans article a bit to honor him correctly.

However, as I said before, HRC did the right thing by including Jaheim Bella Pugh page in their transgender section.

Oxymoronic?

Drag queens and cross-dressers regardless of whether they are cis or trans-self-identifying belong under our trans umbrella. The problem is the world does not accept them as they are. Some trans people in my community think including them under our umbrella is oxymoronic.

Trans Umbrella
There are cisgender people under our trans umbrella.

When I first saw that visualization years ago I couldn’t have agreed with them more.

It is a very difficult concept to understand which is why we must have this conversation about it.

Transgender people on a whole need to live in our authentic gender 24 hours a day.

Drag artists and cross-dressers express their gender as they need, temporarily, but that doesn’t make their lives any less precious or their gender any less viable.

Some folks will be quick to point out the multitude of trans lives in Brazil that hasn’t met the same scrutiny that I demand in our country. And they are correct. There are many places in the world where patriarchal authorism rules with an iron fist making observations problematic at best. But we do what we can.

Monica Roberts, god bless her soul, 2007 Transgriot article Why Trans people Hate HRC explains a lot. Monica was a forgiving soul and in her later years helped national gay rights groups understand our plight. But with Monica’s passing, there are few trans sources left on the web. Especially few that would let bygones be bygones as Monica and I did. Monica wrote:

“In 1995 Elizabeth Birch took over as Executive Director of HRC at a time when there was an epidemic of gays and lesbians cutting trans people out of civil rights legislation.”

“In many cases, gay people who sat on various HRC boards either nationally or regionally led the efforts. In 1999 Dianne Hardy-Garcia, who was the executive director of the Lesbian Gay Rights Lobby (now Equality Texas) at the time and an HRC board member, led the successful effort to cut trans people out of the James Byrd Hate Crime Bill (to Monica’s and TGAIN”s vehement opposition). That bill was eventually killed in the GOP-controlled Texas Senate but passed in 2001 as a GLB only bill and was signed into law by Gov. Rick Perry.”

Elizabeth Birch for a while eclipsed Janice Raymond as Transgender Public Enemy Number One when she was quoted at a Chicago GLBT event as stating that transinclusion in ENDA (the Employment and Non Discrimination Act) a top legislative priority of transgender leaders would happen ‘over her dead body’.

I talked briefly with HRC’s TDoR content producer about their monetization of our dead so obvious in the popup when accessing HRC’s website.

That and why we hate the reviled Elizabeth Birch award, which she vaguely remembered. I made it clear to her that in the eyes of trans people nothing had changed. She said that it was out of their control as a millennial new hire. In any case, she has since blocked me on Facebook and deleted all of her comments.

HRC is no more likely to be gently nudged to full inclusion than they were 20 years ago.

And it just occurred to me why HRC used this young trans intermediary. She was born before our struggle with HRC began. I described what we did but she lacked the passion as a person of lived experiences did. My conclusion? HRC tried to pawn me and leave my contemporaries’ trans struggles behind.

HRC New Orleans Protest
Kelli Busey protesting HRC at their million-dollar fundraiser at the Easy “No Enda No Peace.”

Reading Transgriot 2007: Big Plans For Big Easy And The Little Equal I recalled going down to the dome to pick up Vanessa Edwards Foster on our way to meet up with Courtney Sharp to protest at the New Orleans HRC fundraiser.

I either organized or participated in protests and educational events INSIDE and OUTSIDE of HRC fundraisers in Dallas, Austin, Houston, and New Orleans.

Related: Protest ROCKS Human Rights Campaign Nationwide

In addition, there were protests in Chicago, D.C., Atlanta, Chicago, Philadelphia,  San Francisco, and New York City.

HRC should have come to me first and laid their cards on the table.

Shame on you HRC.

You hurt your new hire and put in jeopardy your relationship with the whole trans community.

And sent me spiraling into depression.

But hey, you did get another cisgender web platform to shill for you.

It is more than evident you will never consider trans people your equal.

I call on HRC to amend their article so that it identifies Jaheim Bella Pugh not as “gender nonbinary or gender non-conforming” but as a cross-dressing cisgender drag queen.

I demand the HRC report responsibly about all trans deaths.

I demand that HRC in concert with Trans Individuals from the protest era compile a shared history and publish it here and on HRC’s website.

And finally, I demand that HRC remove all mentions and links to planet transgender from their website until such a time that I give them permission to do so.




Arrest made for the murder of 17-year-old Jaheim Bella Pugh
Warning: This is as real as it can get,,.. violence, profanity, and triggering emotions.

Added by Kelli Busey on December 22, 2020.
Saved under General
Jaheim Pugh Jaheim Barbie


More than anything Tiffany Pugh, the mother of Jaheim Pugh wanted answers. Her son Jaheim Pugh, 19, was gunned down while leaving a Christmas party, murdered for what he was wearing, a rainbow jumper. He was left where he fell, jeered at by bystanders in a live Facebook video who told him that if he wasn’t wearing a dress he would have been still alive.

To those who knew and loved Jaheim, it just doesn’t make sense. His murder was a hate crime committed against everything they loved about him.

Video by Roland Foster, shared by Jaheim Pugh’s mother which she prefaced with “Jaheim Pugh Jaheim Barbie”

There has been much uncertainty as to how the deceased self-identified within the LGBTQI community.

There are many people under our trans umbrella which includes cisgender cross-dressers and drag artists.

A member of our TDoR team was told by a family member that he was a gay man and that Bella was both his club name and his new puppy’s name. They said that it was all new to the 19-year-old and that he was “trying to figure it all out.”

Tiffany Pugh told Fox 10 News that Jaheim identified as both a man and woman, that his murder was a hate crime.

As explained by pgh lesbian correspondents who first reported writing, “This is a complicated story about identity, but it is a story that must be shared within that complexity because it also reflects the consequences of intolerance and hate in our society. The victim who was murdered in this story was a 19-year-old young adult who was identified by friends as using both he/him and she/her pronouns but referred to by other friends and family as male.”

“My son was killed because of what he was wearing not because of who he was or what he did,” his mother, Tiffany Pugh, said.

She said he was targeted because he was wearing women’s clothing.

I loved him with everything in me,” Pugh said. “That’s why he could shine like he did. Everything I had I poured into Jaheim.”

She said the night he was killed he was wearing a rainbow-colored jumpsuit.

“They took somebody special because he wore a dress,” Pugh said.

The victim’s mother said a video posted on Facebook the morning her son was killed showed him laying on the ground as bystanders recorded.

“Everybody dies, but not everyone lives,” a line from the song his mother shared.

James Lee James Jr., 33, was booked into the Mobile jail Wednesday night and charged in the killing of Jaheim Pugh, 19, who was shot to death at a Christmas gathering in Prichard over the weekend. According to the Houston Chronicle two other unnamed people were injured in the shooting.

James told reporters he is innocent and will be out of jail soon, but prosecutors are trying to keep him behind bars.

Records show James was out on bail after being charged with assault and other offenses following shooting earlier this year, and authorities are asking a judge to revoke that bond.

Rest In Peace Jaheim Bella Pugh


Gender non-conforming teen shot dead at Christmas party
Two photographs of Bella Pugh, one in a rainbow jumpsuit inside and another in an orange jumpsuit outside
Bella Pugh. (Facebook)

Bella Pugh, a Black gender non-confirming teen, was shot to death after a Christmas party erupted into a night of violence earlier this month.

The 19-year-old was slain at a residence in Rosedale Avenue in Prichard, Alabama on 13 December.

Reports suggest that after Pugh was shot, party-goers waited 20 minutes before calling emergency services. Some did nothing, others took out their mobile phones and recorded.

Pugh’s mother Tiffany told Fox10 News that it was their rainbow-coloured jumpsuit that led to their murder, saying: “If [they] wasn’t wearing that dress [they] would still be alive.”

At least two other people attending the party were also injured, according to the Prichard City Police Department.

Officers added that a suspect, James Lee James Jr, turned himself in for questioning 16 December, NBC15 News reported.

He was later charged with murder and two counts of second-degree assault – however, authorities said that they are not investigating Pugh’s death as a hate crime. Their family disagree with the decision.

Tiffany believes Pugh “was killed because of what [they] was wearing, not because of who [they] was or what [they] did.”

“I loved [them] with everything in me, that’s why [they] could shine like [they] did. Everything I had I poured into [Bella].”

Pugh’s father Antonio Ruggs reflected: “Love your kids for who they are.”

“Because you know one day they could be here, the next day they can be gone,” he added, according to MyNBC15.

With each year, the number of trans people murdered rises.
Pugh’s death is yet to be officially counted by monitoring group Human Rights Campaign, which has tracked a record number of murders of trans people in 2020.

With days left until the year ends, HRC’s count stands at 41 trans and gender non-conforming people murdered, more than any other on record.

Rising higher and higher each year, 2020 surpassed last year’s total in August.

Activists say these numbers almost certainly fail to grasp the true scale of the problem. Local officials are not required to report killings to a centralised database, and the police and press often misgender trans and gender non-conforming victims.

https://planettransgender.com/hrc-is-dishonoring-our-dead-by-not-honoring-drag-and-cross-dressers-authentically/

https://planettransgender.com/arrest-made-for-the-murder-of-17-year-old-jaheim-bella-pugh/

https://www.pghlesbian.com/2020/12/black-gender-nonconforming-teen-shot-to-death-in-alabama/

https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2020/12/23/bella-pugh-killed-shot-dead-gender-non-conforming-teen/
