Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-08-03T08:11:26+01:00

====== Joceline (Guatemala City - 1 Aug 2020) ======
Created Monday 03 August 2020
@violence




Joceline
1 Aug 2020
Guatemala City
murdered


Salvadoran activist calls for justice for trans woman murdered in Guatemala
EFE - 08/03/2020, 06:46 PM    
San Salvador, Aug 3 (EFE) .- Salvadoran activist Bianka Rodríguez demanded justice on Monday for 'Joceline', a trans woman murdered in Guatemala and whose body was found in her home on August 1.

Rodríguez, president of the Trans Communicating and Training Association (Comcavis-Trans), also joined the pronouncement and dismay of the United Nations Agency for Refugees (UNHCR) for said crime.

The activist noted on her social networks that the trans woman identified only as Joceline had applied for asylum in Guatemala after fleeing El Salvador due to violence and threats.


Rodríguez pointed out that the lack of public policies and legislation is a State debt, "since they do not guarantee us to have a dignified and full life, forcing many of us to flee our countries of origin."

Therefore, the president of Comcavis-Trans called on the competent authorities of Guatemala to 'clarify the fact' and asked the rest of the governments of the countries of the region to 'seek mechanisms to protect LGBTI people, in special to trans people '.

According to UNHCR, the body of 'Joceline' was found on August 1 at his home in Guatemala City.

He indicated that the woman had fled El Salvador in 2017 after having suffered violence due to her gender identity and the persecution of the maras (gangs).

This entity also called on the Guatemalan authorities to thoroughly investigate the death "in view of its commitment to protect people from the LGBTI community and people who request international protection in the country."

"We express our condolences to the family and loved ones of this woman who was trying to rebuild her life in Guatemala after being forced to flee her country due to violence," said Giovanni Bassu, UNHCR Regional representative for Central America and Cuba, according to a statement released Sunday.

UNHCR noted that violence and persecution continue to force an increasing number of people from Central America to cross borders in search of protection.

In 2019, more than 188,000 new asylum applications were registered by people from Northern Central America (El Salvador, Guatemala and Honduras), fleeing the deterioration of security conditions and violence.

In all, some 790,000 people have fled within their countries or across borders seeking protection. The region shows some of the highest rates of domestic violence, femicide, and sexual and gender-based violence, he added. EFE


The United Nations Refugee Agency (UNHCR) condemned this Sunday the murder in Guatemala of a Salvadoran transgender woman who had requested asylum in this country due to violence and discrimination in her nation.

The woman's body was found Saturday at her home in Guatemala City with signs of violence. The victim had sought refuge in the country after being persecuted for her sexual orientation, UNHCR said in a statement.

"She had fled El Salvador in 2017 after having suffered violence due to her gender identity and the persecution of the maras (gangs)," said the press release.

The international entity asked the Guatemalan authorities to thoroughly investigate "the death due to their commitment to protect people from the LGBTI community and people who request international protection in the country."

"Violence and persecution continue to force an increasing number of people from Central America to cross borders in search of protection," said Giovanni Bassu, UNHCR Regional Representative for Central America and Cuba.



The UN Refugee Agency (UNHCR) expressed its dismay at the violent death of a Salvadoran transsexual woman, who, for having suffered violence due to her gender identity and gang persecution in El Salvador, had requested an asylum process in Guatemala.

In a statement, UNHCR explained that the woman's body was found on August 1 at her home in Guatemala City and that she had escaped from El Salvador, after she was the victim of violence.

In this regard, they call on the Guatemalan authorities "to thoroughly investigate death in view of their commitment to protect people from the LGBTI community and people who request international protection in the country."

Giovanni Bassu, UNHCR Regional Representative for Central America and Cuba, expressed his condolences to the family and loved ones of this woman "who was trying to rebuild her life in Guatemala after having been forced to flee her country due to violence."

https://www.diariolibre.com/actualidad/internacional/activista-salvadorena-pide-justicia-para-mujer-trans-asesinada-en-guatemala-DD20549318

https://oblogdee.blog/2020/08/02/unhcr-calls-for-investigation-into-murder-of-transgender-woman-in-guatemala/

https://www.infobae.com/america/agencias/2020/08/03/la-onu-condena-asesinato-de-mujer-transgenero-salvadorena-en-guatemala/

https://lahora.gt/acnur-se-pronuncia-por-muerte-violenta-de-solicitante-de-asilo-de-el-salvador/
