Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-25T08:43:38+01:00

====== Juliana Giraldo (Miranda - 24 Sep 2020) ======
Created Friday 25 September 2020
@violence


Juliana Giraldo
38
24 Sep 2020
Miranda-Guatemala highway
Cauca
Colombia
shot


Juliana was killed when the car she was travelling in with her husband was shot at by a soldier manning a roadblock. Their "crime" was to turn around in the road because they did not have their papers with them.




Who is Juliana Giraldo, the woman killed by a soldier in Cauca?
September 24, 2020, 10:59 pm

Juliana Giraldo Díaz, the 38-year-old woman who died, according to the first versions, from the shot she received by a soldier, lived with her partner three years ago and both arrived in Miranda in the last year with the dream of putting together a beauty salon. 

Francisco Larrañaga, her husband, said that she was an optimistic person and eager to get ahead. She was a stylist and dreamed of setting up a beauty salon in Miranda. He, meanwhile, sells chicken and fish. (Read:  Duke condemned murder of women in Cauca and demanded exemplary punishment ) said that by being together had to overcome critical and accusations of different members of the community and even those close to you. The partner of the murdered woman, apparently by soldiers who asked them for documents when they were passing through the Guatemala sector, in Mirada, said that they have no criminal record to have been subject to review at this apparent checkpoint. 

Francisco and Juliana helped each other with raising chickens to sell them. Also, he rummages with vehicle fixes

The events occurred around 8:30 in the morning of this Thursday on the highway that leads from Miranda to the village of Guatemala. A car with three occupants was moving through that rural area, on the border between Cauca and the south of the Valley.

The car, white in color, arrived at a military checkpoint on that route. One version would indicate that the car would be reversing, and another indicates that the vehicle passed the checkpoint.

A bullet wound hit the woman, who was traveling in the front seat as a passenger.

Andrés David Romero, spokesman for the LGBTI community in Miranda, said that "Francisco and Juliana helped each other with raising chickens to sell them. In addition, he rummages with vehicle repairs.

President Iván Duque, through his Twitter account, condemned the incident and ordered the Minister of Defense, Carlos Holmes Trujillo, and the National Army, to arrange for the investigation expeditiously. He added in the trill that "the person responsible must receive exemplary punishment. Solidarity with Juliana Giraldo's relatives, to whom we will provide support."

For his part, the Minister of Defense, Carlos Holmes Trujillo, expressed to public opinion regarding the events his "deepest rejection, consternation and pain in the face of what happened."

"Actions of this type are contrary to the policies of the government of President Duque, as well as the doctrine, procedures and protocols of the National Army and will not be tolerated."


The Specific Command of Cauca, an organic military unit of the Third Division of the National Army, recognized that when troops from the Alta Montaña Battalion No. 8 José María Vezga, organic unit of the Apolo Operational Command, carried out area military control tasks, a woman was killed because of a shot by a member of the Force.

The victim was identified as Juliana Giraldo, who was shot in the head while traveling in a car with her husband and two other people near a point called Guatemala, in the municipality of Miranda (Cauca).

" Please help me make this video viral , the Army just killed my wife, help me spread it," says the desperate husband of the victim next to the white car that he was driving and in whose front seat you can see Giraldo's lifeless body.


Prosecutor's Office assumed the investigation into the death of Juliana Giraldo with a differential approach
The trans woman was killed by a gunshot by an Army soldier on the roads of Miranda, Cauca.
Through a statement, the Attorney General's Office confirmed that the process was officially opened to investigate the events surrounding the violent death of a trans woman, identified as Juliana Giraldo , who died after being shot by a police officer in uniform. National Army, at a checkpoint, in a rural area of ??the municipality of Miranda, Cauca .

The entity confirmed that, within the framework of the aforementioned investigation, an expert prosecutor in Human Rights has already been assigned to lead the investigative work of the institution's experts, in order to identify the motives that surrounded the armed attack and subsequent death. of the woman.

See also:  Woman was shot dead by an Army soldier in Cauca

Precisely, the assigned prosecutor is  Mauricio Noguera , an expert in crimes with a differential focus, who will act as the coordinator of the investigation group into the death of the transgender woman Juliana Giraldo, in confusing events registered in the Cauca department.

According to the nature of the event, the investigation must have personnel specialized in gender identity .

In the afternoon of this Thursday, staff of the technical investigation body of the Prosecutor's Office advanced the removal of the body , as well as the technical inspection of the scene. During the first steps of the investigation, the endowment weapons of each of the uniformed officers present and those who may have been involved at the scene were seized .

According to the report of the Prosecutor's Office, the events occurred in a specific manner in the village of Guatemala,  in the rural area of ??Miranda, Cauca. 

The case of the woman's murder at the hands of a National Army soldier was quickly made known nationwide after the man who was driving the vehicle issued a video alert, denouncing the murder of his partner.

The Prosecutor's Office regretted the fact, and even maintained direct communication with the Minister of Defense, Carlos Holmes Trujillo, and inspired a publication through which it is requested to provide more details. According to Trujillo, as stated at a press conference, the responsible uniformed officer will be made available to the corresponding authorities.

Also read: They  report the massacre of six people in Buenos Aires, Cauca

The Army reported in a statement that the soldier who would have fired has already been placed at the disposal of the authorities to advance the investigation.

A video recorded by a man on the roads of Cauca shows the anguished moments he lived when a soldier shot him at an Army checkpoint, hitting his partner Juliana Giraldo in the head. 

The events were recorded during the morning of this Thursday, September 24, in the Guatemala sector, Miranda municipality, Cauca.  The woman's body was left lying in the passenger seat of the vehicle 

The man calls for help and repeatedly yells that they have nothing illegal in the vehicle. “They killed Juliana, that man shot him in the head, it seems, look, please help me. Help me, we have nothing, we have nothing ”, are the words of the one who apparently is the one who was driving, and who desperately tries to record what happened with his phone.

In the images you can see how, at the end of the video, they claim a soldier and he responds "they would have stopped."

According to an Army statement, the unit immediately reported what happened and the pertinent investigations are being carried out. For its part, "the military unit will remain attentive to the judicial requirements, while making available the uniformed man allegedly involved in the unfortunate event, with the purpose of supporting the development of the investigation."

The soldier belongs to the troops of the High Mountain Battalion No. 8 José María Vezga, organic unit of the Apolo Operational Command, of the National Army when they were carrying out control tasks.

You may be interested in:  Five people injured by an explosive impact against a ladder bus in Cauca

In another video, the one who would be a passenger and witness of the moment reported that the soldiers left the mountain running towards the road and "the friend, who was driving, stopped and talked to them," they questioned why they were detained if there was no cones indicating that it was a check.

President Iván Duque described the incident as "repudiable" and ordered the Ministry of Defense and the National Army to arrange for what is necessary to carry out the investigation of the case quickly. 

https://www.eltiempo.com/colombia/otras-ciudades/juliana-giraldo-muerte-de-mujer-por-disparo-del-ejercito-y-relato-del-crimen-539764


https://www.eltiempo.com/colombia/cali/iba-a-comprar-respuestos-cuando-la-muerte-sorprendio-a-juliana-giraldo-539760

https://www.eltiempo.com/colombia/cali/quien-es-juliana-giraldo-la-mujer-asesinada-por-un-soldado-en-cauca-539700

https://noticias.canalrcn.com/justicia/fiscalia-asumio-investigacion-por-muerte-de-juliana-giraldo-363255

https://www.eltiempo.com/colombia/cali/denuncian-que-soldado-disparo-contra-mujer-en-reten-militar-539648

https://oglobo.globo.com/mundo/morte-de-mulher-trans-baleada-na-cabeca-por-soldado-causa-comocao-na-colombia-24658818

https://www.elpais.com.co/ultimo-minuto/denuncian-muerte-de-mujer-por-disparo-de-soldado-del-ejercito-en-miranda-cauca.html

https://www.instagram.com/p/CFhv_7xgYR9/

https://twitter.com/COL_EJERCITO/status/1309197183439310848

https://twitter.com/mindefensa/status/1309198218832551938

https://twitter.com/IvanDuque/status/1309196537025699840
