Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-03T18:29:19+00:00

====== La Tigra (Guayaquil - 28 Dec 2020) ======
Created Sunday 03 January 2021
@violence



H. J. Ramírez ("La Tigra")
46
28 Dec 2020
Guayaquil
Ecuador
murdered



Ruthlessly KILLED A TRANS WOMAN ON THE THRESHOLD OF THE DOOR OF HER HOUSE IN ECUADOR

The Trans Psycho Center of Quito and the Silhouette X Association, members of the National Platform for Trans Revolution and the Ecuadorian Federation of LGBT Organizations, make the following public knowledge.

This December 28, 2020, HJ Ramírez, better known as La Tigra, was found dead at the gate of her house, located in Lomas de la Florida II, Guayaquil. La Tigra as they affectionately called her, 46 years old, was dedicated to the craft of sewing in the sector and was known for her kindness, cordiality and good heart by the locals.

Early this Monday, HJ Ramírez received a visit from an individual at his home at approximately 01:00 am. The subject was close to an hour, and later he runs out of La Tigra's home, desperately. This is demonstrated by the security cameras of a local neighbor. In the morning hours, a client who was going to remove her sewing arrangements, with which La Tigra made a living, found her on the threshold of the door, lying down and lifeless. His body was stiff and bruised. According to criminology data from the autopsy performed, HJ Ramírez died of asphyxiation, presumably by the individual who visited her and who rushed out of her home. The National Police continues in investigations. Until the preparation of this bulletin,

We call on the authorities, especially the State Attorney General's Office and the National Police, to investigate the present case, regardless of whether or not the complaint is filed by the next of kin. Although it is true, it is known that, in the face of violent deaths, not clarified or suspected of criminality, the complaint is ex officio by the Prosecutor's Office, members of the Police, they mentioned that without a complaint there would be no investigations. This was reported to us by neighbors in the sector. Likewise, we invite the new Ministry of Government to provide us with answers about this and other murders, violent deaths, not clarified or suspected of criminality. Likewise, we request the Ombudsman's Office to monitor the due process initiated by the Prosecutor's Office.


#Ecuador | They assassinate “La Tigra”, at the door of his little house - Diario Digital LGBT El Diverso - Latin American and Hispanic news of LGBT, LGBTI, LGBTIQ +, TLGB, GLBTI in Latin America

#Ecuador | They assassinate "La Tigra", in the gate of his little house
We Transcribe the Bulletin in its entirety:

PRESS RELEASE

Ruthlessly KILLED A TRANS WOMAN ON THE THRESHOLD OF THE DOOR OF HER HOUSE IN ECUADOR

The Trans Psycho Center of Quito and the Silhouette X Association, members of the National Platform for Trans Revolution and the Ecuadorian Federation of LGBT Organizations, make the following public knowledge.

This December 28, 2020, HJ Ramírez, better known as La Tigra, was found dead at the gate of her house, located in Lomas de la Florida II, Guayaquil. La Tigra as they affectionately called her, 46 years old, was dedicated to the craft of sewing in the sector and was known for her kindness, cordiality and good heart by the locals.

Early this Monday, HJ Ramírez received a visit from an individual at his home at approximately 01:00 am. The subject was close to an hour, and later he runs out of La Tigra's home, desperately. This is demonstrated by the security cameras of a local neighbor. In the morning hours, a client who was going to remove her sewing arrangements, with which La Tigra made a living, found her on the threshold of the door, lying down and lifeless. His body was stiff and bruised. According to criminology data from the autopsy performed, HJ Ramírez died of asphyxiation, presumably by the individual who visited her and who rushed out of her home. The National Police continues in investigations. Until the preparation of this bulletin,

We call on the authorities, especially the State Attorney General's Office and the National Police, to investigate the present case, regardless of whether or not the complaint is filed by the next of kin. Although it is true, it is known that, in the face of violent deaths, not clarified or suspected of criminality, the complaint is ex officio by the Prosecutor's Office, members of the Police, they mentioned that without a complaint there would be no investigations. This was reported to us by neighbors in the sector. Likewise, we invite the new Ministry of Government to provide us with answers about this and other murders, violent deaths, not clarified or suspected of criminality. Likewise, we request the Ombudsman's Office to monitor the due process initiated by the Prosecutor's Office.

Con la presente, según él informa Runa Sipiy (Asesinatos LGBT) que lleva la Asociación Silueta X desde el año 2013, serían 14 asesinatos en contra de nuestras poblaciones sólo en lo que va del 2020.

Quito, miércoles 30 de diciembre de 2020

Psic. Diane Rodríguez

Federación Ecuatoriana de Org. LGBTIQ+

Telf: 0982001871 – 0223316199 – 042562964

Germán Castillo

Mesa LGBTIQ+ de Quito

Geovanny Jaramillo

Asoc. Bolivarianos Diversos

Miguel Mite

Asociación Silueta X

[1] Vecino del Sector de Lomas de la Florida II, D.K.R. Declaración tomada el 29 de diciembre de 2020. Archivo de la Asociación Silueta X.




Ruthlessly KILLED A TRANS WOMAN ON THE THRESHOLD OF THE DOOR OF HER HOUSE IN ECUADOR

Not long ago our colleague “La Tigra” was assassinated. It is being veiled at 38 and Venezuela, Guayaquil. The apparent murderer fled, being registered in the neighbors' cameras.

 Enough of so many violent deaths, not clarified or suspected of criminality. Even when!
 
https://siluetax.org/2020/12/30/asesinan-despiadadamente-a-mujer-trans-en-el-umbral-de-la-puerta-de-su-casa-en-ecuador/

https://eldiverso.com/2020/12/30/ecuador-asesinan-a-la-tigra-en-el-porton-de-su-casita/

https://diarioeldiverso.files.wordpress.com/2020/12/boletin-de-prensa-asesinan-despiadadamente-a-mujer-trans-en-el-umbral-de-la-puerta-de-su-casa-federacion-ecuatoriana-de-organizaciones-lgbt-asociacion-silueta-x.pdf

https://twitter.com/DianeRodriguezZ/status/1344316807625244673
 
https://twitter.com/siluetax/status/1344316072661569538

https://www.facebook.com/DianeRodriguezZ/posts/3616746718379312
