Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-08-22T21:14:12+01:00

====== Lorena Maria del Lujan Riquel (Rosario - 22 Aug 2020) ======
Created Saturday 22 August 2020
@violence




Lorena María del Luján Riquel
39
22 Aug 2020
Rosario
Santa Fe
Argentina
beaten and stoned



A sex worker who would be trans was assassinated yesterday morning by hitting the head with cement blocks in Rosario and it is being investigated whether the perpetrator of the crime sexually abused the victim before killing her.

The femicide occurred around 3:30 am yesterday on public roads, in Rueda at 5500 in the southwestern area of ​​Rosario, and the victim has not yet been identified, spokespersons for the case indicated. Although, according to the police, it would be a transsexual who was engaged in prostitution. According to neighbors in the area, a man hit the woman with stones or cement blocks, whose body was found naked at the bottom. No hypothesis has been ruled out: they believe it could be an attempted rape, or the aggressor went crazy because he did not know the sexual identity of the victim and had hired what he believed to be a woman or did not want to pay him and killed her. Alerted by a call from a neighbor, the police found the body of the sex worker - who has not yet been identified - near a tree. Spokesmen for the case said that the trans woman had a black scarf on her bloody head, surrounded by cement blocks with blood stains and she had no clothes on her lower body. Police found pants and underwear nearby. It will be the autopsy that will finally reveal whether the victim suffered sexual abuse before being murdered. Finding traces of semen will also be vital to determine a DNA.

A doctor from the public emergency system determined that the trans woman was dead when he attended her at around 4:30 in the morning.


Rosario, Santa Fe - The wave of violence and insecurity claimed a new fatality in the city of Rosario, and again in the stricken southwest area.

According to the first information, a trans woman was beaten and killed by a man, in Rueda at 5500 . It was close to 3 in the morning.

According to the first data provided by the police, a witness saw that a man threw a block of cement at the victim and fled with his slippers. It is also investigated if he was abused.

The assailant was described as a short man who was dressed in a gray hooded sweatshirt. When the police arrived at the scene, they found the body of the victim naked. He had a skull injury. Sies confirmed minutes later that he had died.

Source: La Capital newspaper



Around 3 in the morning of this Saturday a femicide was committed in the city. In Rueda at 5500, in the western zone, a woman was murdered. The body was in the street without underwear or pants and next to it were concrete blocks with blood, for which it is presumed that she was beaten with them.

Police sources indicated that, according to witnesses who heard the woman's requests for help, a man beat her to death with a stone and fled with his slippers.

The Prosecutor's Office identified the victim as Lorena María del Luján Riquel, 39 years old.

Witnesses described the murderer as a thin person, 1.70 meters tall, who wore a diver and gray pants and wore a white chinstrap.

They investigate whether the woman was sexually abused. The body was examined by Sies paramedics, the lawyer and a cabinet of the Criminal Investigation Agency (AIC).

Prosecutor Georgina Pairola, of the Painful Homicide Unit on duty, took charge of the case. The official ordered the first measures, such as surveying cameras in the area, taking testimonies, surveying the scene and photographic expertise, in addition to the corresponding autopsy.

 
--------------------
Si va a utilizar este texto cite la fuente: elciudadanoweb.com
--------------------




https://www.diariopanorama.com/noticia/358946/asesinaron-mujer-trans-rosario-e-investigan-si-fue-abusada

https://www.elciudadanoweb.com/asesinaron-a-una-mujer-a-piedrazos-encontraron-el-cuerpo-en-la-madrugada-en-zona-oeste/

https://www.cronica.com.ar/edicionimpresa/Matan-a-trans-a-adoquinazos--20200822-0058.html

https://www.lacapital.com.ar/policiales/bestial-femicidio-zona-sur-trabajadora-sexual-fue-abusada-y-asesinada-un-bloque-cemento-n2604926.html

https://www.elciudadanoweb.com/asesinaron-a-una-mujer-a-piedrazos-encontraron-el-cuerpo-en-la-madrugada-en-zona-oeste/


https://www.lacapital.com.ar/policiales/bestial-femicidio-zona-sur-trabajadora-sexual-fue-abusada-y-asesinada-un-bloque-cemento-n2604926.html
