Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-07T08:34:16+01:00

====== Marcos (Iztapalapa - 4 Oct 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 07 October 2020
@violence




Marcos
17
4 Oct 2020
Iztapalapa
Ciudad de México
Mexico
stabed


Marcos was stabbed during an argument with his sister's boyfriend on 4 Oct 2020 in Iztapalapa, Ciudad de México (Mexico).

He was 17. #SayHisName #TransLivesMatter #TDoR



Marcos was transgender and on Sunday night he fought with his brother-in-law Giovani. Wounded with a knife and covered in blood, the minor went out to the street to ask for help, but died before they helped him.

It was neighbors who heard Marcos, barely 17, and his brother-in-law Óscar Giovani, 27, arguing. The screams could be heard from inside a home, in the Santa María Aztahuacán neighborhood, in Iztapalapa.

And it is that the minor did not agree with his sister having a romantic relationship with Giovani, because he had another girlfriend, in addition to allegedly engaging in drug dealing.

The fight escalated until the attacker stabbed the teenager.
 
With a chest injury, Marcos left the house located on block 22 of lot 219, on Narciso Mendoza street.

Behind him the aggressor came out to escape the place. And while the witnesses saw the murderer flee, Marcos asked for help.

The street dwellers called the police and requested an ambulance for the paramedics to take Marcos to a hospital. But when rescuers arrived, the young man had already died.

He also reads:  With recreation, they commemorate four years of the transfemicide of Paola Buenrostro

Those who lived in the same place where Marcos lived, notified their relatives. His father arrived at the place, who identified him.

Before the agents who attended the case, the man assured that Óscar Giovani, known as “El Ganso”, is the murderer of his son


Young transgender man dies stabbed by his brother-in-law in Iztapalapa

The victim fought with her attacker because she did not agree that her sister had a romantic relationship with him, because he had another girlfriend, in addition to the fact that he is allegedly engaged in drug dealing

The minor did not agree with his sister having a romantic relationship with Giovani, because he had another girlfriend, apart from engaging in drug dealing.

Marcos was transgender and on Sunday night he fought with his brother-in-law Giovani. Wounded with a knife and covered in blood, the minor went out to the street to ask for help, but died before they helped him.

It was neighbors who heard Marcos, barely 17, and his brother-in-law Óscar Giovani, 27, arguing. The screams could be heard from inside a home, in the Santa María Aztahuacán neighborhood, in Iztapalapa.

And it is that the minor did not agree with his sister having a romantic relationship with Giovani, because he had another girlfriend, in addition to allegedly engaging in drug dealing.

The fight escalated until the attacker stabbed the teenager.

With a chest injury, Marcos left the house located on block 22 of lot 219, on Narciso Mendoza street.
Behind him the aggressor came out to escape the place. 

And while the witnesses saw the murderer flee, Marcos asked for help.

The street dwellers called the police and requested an ambulance for the paramedics to take Marcos to a hospital. But when rescuers arrived, the young man had already died.

Those who lived in the same place where Marcos lived, notified their relatives. His father arrived at the place, who identified him.

Before the agents who attended the case, the man assured that Óscar Giovani, known as "El Ganso", is the murderer of his son.

https://headtopics.com/mx/joven-transgenero-muere-apunalado-por-su-cunado-en-iztapalapa-16107415

https://es-us.noticias.yahoo.com/joven-transg%C3%A9nero-muere-apu%C3%B1alado-cu%C3%B1ado-091121110.html

https://www.eluniversal.com.mx/metropoli/joven-transgenero-muere-apunalado-por-su-cunado-en-iztapalapa

https://eltiempomonclova.mx/noticia/2020/joven-transgenero-de-17-anos-muere-apunalado-por-su-cunado.html
