Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-11-11T06:21:12+00:00

====== Mia Zabala Gutierrez (Playa Grande - 8 Nov 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 11 November 2020
@violence




Mía Zabala Gutiérrez
2020_11_08_Mia-Zabala-Gutierrez.jpg
https://kaosenlared.net/honduras-onu-condena-atroz-asesinato-de-octava-mujer-trans-en-2020/
8 Nov 2020
Playa Grande, Amapala
Valle
Honduras
13.269587,-87.6612497
beaten



Honduras. UN condemns heinous murder of eighth trans woman in 2020
From 2009 to date, 371 violent deaths of LGBTI people have been reported in the country, of which 19 have occurred in 2020
Posted on Nov 10, 2020
Compartir
The Office in Honduras of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OHCHR) condemns the violent death of Ms. Mía Zabala, a transgender woman from the LGBTI Horus association, based in Nacaome, Valle.

The Observatory of Violent Deaths of LGBTI people in Honduras records that from 2009 to date, 371 violent deaths of LGBTI people have been reported, of these 19 have occurred in 2020 (eight gay people, three lesbians and eight transgender women).

According to the information received by the Office in Honduras of the United Nations High Commissioner for Human Rights (OACNUDH), the body of Mrs. Mía Zabala (Wilfredo Zabala Gutiérrez, birth name) was found on the morning of 8 November with signs of blows to the head in the town of Playa Grande in the city of Amapala, department of Valle.

The Office of the UN High Commissioner condemns the violent death of Ms. Mía, a transgender woman volunteer for the LGBTI Horus association, based in Nacaome, Valle department.

According to data from the Observatory of Violent Deaths of LGBTI people in Honduras coordinated by the Cattrachas organization, from 2009 to date, 371 violent deaths of LGBTI people have been reported in the country, of which 19 have occurred in 2020 (eight gay people, three lesbians and eight transgender women).

“The atrocious murder of Mía Zabala should have been prevented through actions aimed at guaranteeing the right to life of trans people in Honduras. The Office that I represent is deeply concerned about the stigmatization, discrimination and violence based on sexual orientation and gender identity of which LGBTI people are victims in the country ”, laments the Representative of OHCHR in Honduras, Isabel Albaladejo Escribano.

The Office recalls that last November 5, in the context of the third review cycle of the Universal Periodic Exam (UPR), the State of Honduras received various recommendations aimed at promoting all the necessary measures to protect the rights of LGBTI persons and, In accordance with international human rights obligations, prevent, investigate and repair any act of violence against them.

“We call on the corresponding authorities to carry out an independent, prompt and exhaustive investigation that considers the sexual orientation and gender identity of the victim as a hypothesis and that allows the clarification of the facts, as well as the effective prosecution and punishment of those responsible. of the murder of Mrs. Zabala, in line with the obligation of due diligence ”, demands the UN Representative.

The Office urges the State of Honduras to adopt the necessary measures for the non-repetition of these events and reaffirms its commitment to provide technical assistance to the corresponding authorities. Finally, OHCHR expresses its solidarity and condolences with the relatives of Ms. Mía Zabala and the Horus association.

https://kaosenlared.net/honduras-onu-condena-atroz-asesinato-de-octava-mujer-trans-en-2020/
