Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-02T23:11:24+01:00

====== Name Unknown (Carmen - 18 Mar 2020) ======
Created Friday 02 October 2020
@violence


Name Unknown
18 Mar 2020
Ciudad del Carmen
Campeche
Mexico
18.659782,-91.8360302,
dismembered



Body found in garbage drum

Dismembered and wrapped in sheets inside a garbage can filled with concrete, parts of a man were found yesterday in the vicinity of "Lienzo Charro" in the Playa Norte area.

The macabre discovery occurred 24 hours after Yadira de los Ángeles Arcos Jiménez was appointed as the head of the Regional Vice Prosecutor's Office, replacing Mario Humberto Ortiz Rodríguez.

Police elements reported that workers from the Association of Charros discovered the body bagged and covered, when they were carrying out work on calle 50 at the intersection of avenida Héroes del 21 Abril and Los Pinos, near Conalep.

In addition, part of the humanity that remained in the drum was covered with plastic and the sheet, to later throw it on the public highway.

The grim discovery took place around 11:20 in the morning, when employees smelled the fetid smell coming from the dairy.

Ministerial agents arrived at the scene and when they removed the sheets they came across the nylon-covered plastic bottle, which they removed. When they removed the lid they realized that it was full of concrete.

With tools and knives they broke the container. A police officer who requested anonymity commented: "They are pieces of a person's body, apparently transsexual from what is observed."

The ministerials took 20 minutes to open the trash can, because it was sealed inside with concrete. They had to borrow hammers and machetes, to verify what was inside.

After several juggling, the agents raised the remains with a boat and everything, which apparently remained a few hours near the "Lienzo Charro."

Almost when he left, another police officer pointed out: “The body belongs to a man, but it looks like a transvestite because of how it was found. Everything depends on the investigation carried out by the Vice Prosecutor's Office ”.

At the end of the edition, the "body" remains in the morgue of the Vice Prosecutor's Office, where they perform a necropsy to clarify the causes of death.

https://tribunacampeche.com/carmen/2020/03/19/hallan-cuerpo-en-tambo-de-basura/
