Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-14T13:24:38+01:00

====== Name Unknown (Santa Rosa Chicoloapan - 13 Oct 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 14 October 2020




Name Unknown
13 Oct 2020
Santa Rosa
Chicoloapan
Estado de México
Mexico
19.408795,-98.9017207
beaten and stoned


The body of an unidentified #trans woman was found under a road bridge in Santa Rosa, Chicoloapan, Estado de México (Mexico) on 13 Oct 2020.

She had been beaten and stoned.

They murder a transvestite in Santa Rosa Chicoloapan

Regional media report that the body of a transvestite was found under the Marianas bridge.

hate crime

It is assumed that there are cameras working in the area of ​​the Puente de Marianas ... hopefully soon they will locate the person or persons responsible.



A young transvestite who apparently worked as a sex servant was beaten to death in the municipality of Chicoloapan in the State of Mexico.

According to El Gráfico, the victim's body was found under the “Las Marianas” vehicle bridge in the community of Santa Rosa.

It was neighbors who discovered the young man of approximately 25 years, leaning on a rock and with various blows all over his body, in the vicinity of Avenida Emiliano Zapata on the corner of Calle Allende.

Police reports state that the now deceased man wore women's clothing, so it is suspected that his murderer hired the victim's services and upon discovering that it was a man, he beat him to death.

"It presents several blunt blows in different parts of the body (face, thorax, legs)" and it is presumed that a stone was also used.

The site was guarded until the arrival of the expert services. The Mexican Attorney General's Office started the folder ECA / FHM / FHM / 034/248669/30/10 for the crime of homicide against who or those who are responsible.




CHICOLOAPAN. Edoméx. October 13, 2020.- A male person is found dead, who has bruised bruises on different parts of the body and who was left on a stone and half naked, in the Santa Rosa neighborhood of this Mexican municipality.

This cruel crime was committed against a man who allegedly practiced service sex, who was beaten to death and by throwing rocks on his head, abdomen and back.

The now deceased was found on a stone and with his clothes below his knees and face down for what is presumed that he was victims of sexual assault; however, the expert opinions and the results of the autopsy will determine the causes of his death.

The criminals are fugitives from justice so they are wanted by the police from the security cabinet of the government of the State of Mexico, in order to be located, detained and taken to prison.

The body of this man who dressed as a woman was discovered under the Marianas bridge, located at the intersection of avenida Emiliano Zapata  and calle Allende in the Santa Rosa neighborhood of this municipality.

The investigators presume that someone hired the services of this man, believing that they were a woman, because he wore feminine clothes and heels and when they discovered that it was a man, they submitted and killed him; However, it will be the advances of the investigations that determine the causes for which it was terminated.


A person who worked as a sex worker was cruelly murdered in the municipality of Chicoloapan.

The victim was a transvestite who was apparently beaten to death during his workday and by throwing rocks at his head, abdomen and
back.The now deceased was found on a stone and with his clothing below his knees and face down for which it is presumed that she was a victim of sexual assault; however, the expert opinions and the results of the autopsy will determine the causes of his death.

So far, the whereabouts of the criminals responsible for this crime are unknown, so they remain fugitives from the law, it is because of this hate murder that those responsible are already being investigated and they are sought by the police from the security cabinet of the government of the State of Mexico, in order to be located, detained and taken to prison.
The body of this man dressed as a woman was discovered under the Marianas Bridge, located at the intersection of Emiliano Zapata Avenue and Allende Street in the Santa Rosa neighborhood of this municipality.

Those in charge of the investigations presume that someone hired the services of this man, believing that they were a woman, because he wore feminine clothes and heels and when he discovered that it was a man, he submitted and killed him; However, it will be the advances of the investigations that determine the causes for which it was terminated.

https://noticiasenlamira.com/estados/asesinan-a-joven-travesti-en-edomex-sospechan-de-cliente/

https://sanvicentechicoloapan.com.mx/municipio/asesinan-a-travesti-en-santa-rosa-chicoloapan

https://reporterosenmovimiento.com/2020/10/13/asesinan-a-un-hombre-joven-a-rocazos-y-golpes-en-chicoloapan/

https://www.sernoticias.com.mx/2020/10/13/asesinan-a-travesti-en-chicoloapan/
