Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-07-23T20:49:40+01:00

====== Paula Ferraz (Maranhao - 16 Jul 2020) ======
Created Thursday 23 July 2020
@violence





Pietra Ferraz (Paula Ferraz)
27
https://www.facebook.com/photo.php?fbid=976272505839780&set=pb.100003711202005.-2207520000..&type=3&theater
https://jornalpequeno.com.br/2020/07/23/odio-pela-orientacao-sexual-e-a-principal-causa-das-mortes-violentas-de-lgbts-no-maranhao/
16 Jul 2020
Vila Isabel Cafeteira, São Luís, Maranhão
Brazil
murdered



Paula Ferraz


Hate for sexual orientation is the main cause of violent deaths of LGBTs in Maranhão
According to the Human Rights Education Superintendence, about 90% of murders are committed by homophobia and transphobia

The dancer “Xexéu” and drag queen Paula Ferraz were murdered at Vila Isabel Cafeteira, in São Luís (Photo: Disclosure)

The reality is still very harsh for the LGBTQIA + population in Maranhão . In 2019, the State Secretariat for Human Rights and Popular Participation (Sedihpop), through the Human Rights Education Superintendence, reported having registered six homicides of gay, trans or transvestite people. This year, there have been four occurrences, three in São Luís, and one in Bacabal.

The numbers may be higher, as there are under-notifications, due to the lack of a notification center in the State government capable of accounting for the number of deaths. Regarding the reasons that would most cause the murders, homophobia and transphobia account for 90% .

According to the superintendent of Human Rights Education at Sedihpop, Airton Ferreira, there is still no ideal institutional apparatus in the state government, in the sense of monitoring the occurrences.

"Whether in the Public Security Information System, or in a more in-depth discussion, in the treatment of these cases, when they arrive at police stations, and in the instances of the Judiciary," said Airton.

The superintendent ensured that, as the State Secretariat for Human Rights and Popular Participation is informed of deaths and aggressions against the LGBTQIA + population, the agency submits a request to monitor the investigations to the State Public Security System.

“What we do is talk to the Public Security System. Our role is to articulate the policy of reducing violent crimes against lesbians, gay, trans or transvestites, especially when the motivation was hatred for sexual orientation, ”said the head of the Human Rights Education Superintendence.

Airton reported that the victims are generally self-employed professionals, aged 19 to 40, with low income and residents of peripheral neighborhoods in the cities of Maranhão. The firearm is the most used in homicides, according to the superintendent.

Another piece of information given by Airton is that the perpetrators of the crimes are sometimes the spouses or people emotionally involved with those who have been murdered. “There is a percentage of 90% of cases linked to prejudice. But, we must emphasize that it is not all crime against the LGBTQIA + population, which can be characterized as homophobia or transphobia. It is essential to investigate the nature of the situation. But, I can say that there are almost always refinements of cruelty ”, highlighted Airton Ferreira.

CHEMICAL DEPENDENCE

Airton Ferreira informed that the use of drugs by gays, lesbians, trans and transvestites is also a social issue that the state needs to face. “There is an audience, within the segment itself, that there is this reality of chemical dependency. It is not an embryonic issue. But the factors that support my speech are behavioral, family relationships, depression, influence on friendships, and prejudice ”, stressed the superintendent.

CRIMES IN 2020

This year, two crimes have gained considerable repercussion in the capital of Maranhão. These were the deaths of the dancer Wenyson Fernandes Miranda, 33, known as “Xexéu”, in February; and young Pedro Antônio Oliveira dos Santos, a drag queen with a social name Paula Ferraz, 27, who happened last week.

The two murders took place in Vila Isabel Cafeteira - Cohab region. The body of the dancer “Xexéu” was found on the morning of February 5, inside the room of the house where he lived. He was bound and with signs of violence, such as strangulation-like injuries and strangulation. A string was tied around his neck, which was also hit with a blow to the head. The house was quite messy, and objects had been taken away.

“Xexéu” was a bolero dancer, known in some nightclubs in São Luís, including Choperia do Kabão, in the Ring Road, where he used to perform. He also worked as a hairdresser.

On June 22, the suspect of being the author of the robbery that victimized “Xexéu” was arrested in the city of Manaus (AM). At the time of the arrest, Danilo Antônio Velaco de Assis, 27, was at the home of an aunt, located in the Santa Etelvina neighborhood, in the northern part of the Amazon capital.

At the time of the arrest, delegate Felipe César, from the Superintendence of Homicide and Protection of the Person (SHPP), explained that Danilo was identified after surveys carried out on the victim's social networks.

"On social networks, we identified some photos in which the author appeared, and we also learned that he was in a rehabilitation clinic, where we managed to pull the registration form and his complete qualification," said Felipe.

In testimony, to the civil police of Manaus, who made his capture, Danilo confirmed that he was at the victim's residence, but said that the crime was committed by someone else. The other involved, whose name was not disclosed, would have been identified by the police and had his arrest warrant issued. He is also a native of another state and was in the same rehabilitation clinic as the arrested suspect, according to investigations by the Civil Police. In addition, he also lived in the residence and had a relationship with “Xexéu”.

On the 16th of this month (Thursday, last week), Pedro Antônio Oliveira dos Santos, a drag queen with a social name Paula Ferraz, 27, was killed in the VilaIsabel Cafeteira neighborhood - Cohab region, in São Luís.

Airton Ferreira informed that Paula Ferraz lived with her family, and worked on her own as a hairdresser. Airton said he had been with Paula Ferraz's family after the murder, and that relatives said there was a possibility that the crime was motivated by debts with drug dealers, but that no family member had previously been sought to help remedy it. the supposed debts.

However, a victim's aunt, in contact with Jornal Pequeno, contested this information and stated that Paula Ferraz was a victim of homophobia, as the men identified as the perpetrators of the crime, for a long time, were implicating the dragqueen due to his orientation sexual. It was even said by their aunt that they were doing the same acts against another young homosexual who works at the Cohab fair.

A person suspected of having participated in the crime was arrested on Monday (20). This is a man, captured in front of the Praia Grande Integration Terminal. This person, according to the police, is responsible for crimes in the state of São Paulo, and in the city of Penalva.



he Civil Police of the State of Maranhão arrested today (20), around 2 pm, in front of the integration terminal the man with initials BSR of 29 years, suspected of Homicide and Robbery.

Today, a Temporary Arrest Warrant was executed in the District of São José do Rio Preto / SP, where he allegedly committed a Qualified Homicide in favor of a man who, at the time, was a partner in the suspect's crimes.

After exchanging information with the São Paulo Police, teams from the Homicide and Personal Protection Superintendence (SHPP) carried out surveys and bell tolls, and in the early afternoon of today, they sought and legalized the wanted person, in the company of a woman, in front of the terminal. from the Integration of Bairro Praia Grande, in São Luís. Approached, the individual admitted to having arrived in this city about two months ago, but said that he did not understand the reason for his approach.

Upon being taken to the SHPP headquarters, the prisoner admitted that he knew how to be investigated for a crime of Homicide by a crime partner in São Paulo.

According to the Civil Police, there is still an open arrest warrant against the accused, issued by the Penalva / MA District, for the crime of robbery.

Still according to the investigation, he is also suspected of, in the company of two other individuals, having murdered Pedro Antonio Oliveira dos Santos, a social name Paula Ferraz, 27, on 07/16-2020, and after that he buried the victim's body in shallow grave, in an area of ??the Vila Cafeteira neighborhood known as Basílio. The murder of Paula Ferraz is being investigated by the Homicide Police in the Northern Area.

Their Facebook profile is https://www.facebook.com/yzaherykabravanell.oliveira.

https://jornalpequeno.com.br/2020/07/21/preso-suspeito-pela-morte-de-drag-queen-na-vila-isabel-cafeteira/

https://www.ssp.ma.gov.br/preso-suspeito-de-mortes-violentas-em-sao-paulo-sao-luis-e-penalva/

https://www.portalcn1.com.br/2020/07/preso-suspeito-de-praticar-homicidio-em.html

https://oimparcial.com.br/policia/2020/07/preso-homem-suspeito-de-mortes-violentas-em-sao-luis-penalva-e-sao-paulo/

https://www.netoferreira.com.br/poder/2020/07/preso-homem-suspeito-de-mortes-violentas-em-sao-luis-e-penalva/

https://jornalpequeno.com.br/2020/07/23/odio-pela-orientacao-sexual-e-a-principal-causa-das-mortes-violentas-de-lgbts-no-maranhao/
