Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-08-13T20:39:14+01:00

====== Summer Taylor (Seattle - 4 Jul 2020) ======
Created Thursday 13 August 2020
@violence



Summer Taylor
24
https://www.thecut.com/2020/07/1-protester-dead-1-injured-after-car-rams-seattle-protest.html
4 Jul 2020
Seattle
California
USA
run over


Summer was nonbinary.


Summer Taylor, a 24-year-old activist, has died after being hit by a car while peacefully protesting in Seattle. They were reportedly participating in the Black Femme March on Friday night, for which Washington State troopers had blocked off on-ramps onto Interstate 5.

The Seattle Times reports that the group was on its way back to Capitol Hill after marching to the police department’s west precinct, and as one protester told the Times, “it was a festive environment.” Demonstrators stopped to do the Cupid Shuffle on the highway, minutes before a white Jaguar sedan barreled toward the crowd. The driver, who has since been identified as 27-year-old Dawit Kelete, rammed into two of the protesters — Taylor and Diaz Love, a 32-year-old from Portland, Oregon — jettisoning them into the air.

Graphic video [warning: The linked content contains disturbing and violent footage] of the crash has circulated online: In it, people can be heard screaming “car, car!” as the vehicle approaches, its tires squealing while it maneuvers around cars meant to form a barricade.

“I don’t know what happened, but it didn’t seem like an accident at all. He didn’t hit his brakes, he didn’t stop,” the protester told the Times. Journalist Mark Taylor-Canfield, who witnessed the incident, agreed. The car “sped up and went right into the middle of the crowd,” Taylor-Canfield told The Guardian. “Most of us assumed it was a purposeful attempt at vehicular homicide.”

Taylor and Love were taken to Harborview Medical Center, where Taylor died on Saturday night. Love was hospitalized for fractured limbs and internal injuries. A Facebook status Love — who was livestreaming the demonstration — wrote on Friday, before the Black Femme March, has circulated widely in the aftermath. “If you’ve been following the Revolution and protests you know the death threats from various hate groups is real, real this weekend,” it reads. “I’ll be shocked if some major tragedy doesn’t take place in one of our protests in the States this weekend. To say I’m scared af to be going out and protesting … is an understatement.”


A person who was killed on Saturday when a man who drove his car on to a closed Seattle freeway and into a crowd protesting against police brutality was remembered as someone dedicated to the cause.

The other person who was hit remained in serious condition at a Seattle hospital.

The person who was killed, Summer Taylor, 24, spent the last six weeks “tirelessly standing up for others while working full time and supporting everyone around them”, wrote Urban Animal on Instagram, the veterinarian clinic where Taylor worked in Seattle.

Taylor, who the post said used they and them pronouns, was “a positive force of nature” and brought joy, the post said.

“Anyone that works for Urban Animal will tell you that Summer Taylor’s laugh makes any bad day better.”

Katelyn Hoberecht, who worked with Taylor at the veterinary clinics, told the Seattle Times Taylor had been a familiar presence at protests.

“Summer has been there since day one standing up for black lives. Staying out all day and night, while still working full time taking care of animals,” Hoberecht said. “Summer talked to me about the protests, and how incredible it was to be a part of something so huge. A part of history.”

Kamala Harris, a US senator and former Democratic presidential candidate from California, was among those honoring Taylor on social media on Sunday.

Harris tweeted: “Absolutely heartbreaking. Summer Taylor was only 24-years-old, peacefully protesting for Black Lives Matter when they were struck by a car. Thinking of their family during this difficult time and everyone in the movement today.”

Diaz Love, 32, from Portland, Oregan, was also hit when the car barreled through a panicked crowd of protesters on Interstate 5 early on Saturday morning. Diaz remained in serious condition in the intensive care unit at Harborview medical center but her health was improving, spokesperson Susan Gregg said.

“I’m alive and stable,” Love posted on Facebook late on Sunday. “In a lot of pain. I cannot believe Summer was murdered. If they thought this murder would make us back down, they are very wrong. Very wrong.”

Love also said: “My [Facebook][ is filled with death threats, that and only being able to use one hand has me going slow. I deeply appreciate and feel all the love y’all are sending me.”

Seattle has been the site of prolonged unrest following the 25 May police killing of George Floyd in Minneapolis, which sparked nationwide protests. Dozens were arrested last week after authorities cleared the “Capitol Hill Occupied Protest” zone.

Protesters had shut down the interstate for 19 days in a row.

The Washington state patrol said on Saturday evening that it will no longer allow protesters to enter I-5 and will arrest pedestrians on the freeway.

The driver of the car which hit the crowd, Dawit Kelete, who is black, is in custody awaiting a court hearing on Monday.

Kelete, of Seattle, drove the car around vehicles that were blocking I-5 and sped into the crowd about 1.40am, according to a police report. Video taken at the scene by protesters showed people shouting “Car! Car!” before fleeing the roadway.

Love was filming the protest in a nearly two-hour-long Facebook live stream captioned “Black Femme March takes I-5” when the video ended abruptly. With about 15 seconds left, shouts of “Car!” can be heard as the camera starts to shake before screeching tires and the sound of impact are heard.

A graphic video posted on social media showed the white Jaguar racing toward a group of protesters standing behind several parked cars, set up for protection. The car swerves around the other vehicles and slams into the two protesters, sending them flying into the air.

Kelete, who was alone, fled the scene after hitting the protesters. One protester got in a car and chased the driver for about a mile. He was able to stop him by pulling his car in front of the Jaguar.

Kelete was described by officers as reserved and sullen when he was arrested, according to court documents. He also asked if the pedestrians were OK, the documents say. Kelete was booked into the King county correctional facility on Saturday morning on two counts of vehicular assault.

https://www.kuow.org/stories/seattle-driver-in-summer-taylor-death-pleads-not-guilty

https://edition.cnn.com/2020/07/09/us/seattle-protesters-car-death-man-charged/index.html

https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/as-driver-is-charged-in-summer-taylors-death-family-remembers-activists-dedication-to-justice/

https://www.thecut.com/2020/07/1-protester-dead-1-injured-after-car-rams-seattle-protest.html

https://www.theguardian.com/us-news/2020/jul/06/summer-taylor-death-seattle-protest

https://www.nytimes.com/2020/07/05/us/summer-taylor-seattle.html

https://www.seattletimes.com/seattle-news/2-people-hit-by-car-on-i-5-in-downtown-seattle-during-protest/
https://twitter.com/ASeattleStoner/status/1279653208831344640
