Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-15T08:10:15+01:00

====== Susana Criado Anton (Oviedo - 13 Sep 2020) ======
Created Tuesday 15 September 2020
@violence




Susana Criado Anton
60
13 Sep 2020
Oviedo
Principado de Asturias
Spain
beaten


A woman died at dawn from Saturday to Sunday at the Central University Hospital of Asturias (HUCA) after being attacked by a man in the vicinity of the Plaza de Primo de Rivera in Oviedo. The police are investigating the degree of kinship between the man and the woman, but police sources indicate that "apparently" it is his partner. He has been arrested and is in the dungeons of the Oviedo Superior Headquarters, waiting to be brought to justice.

2.8 million women have suffered physical or sexual violence
The events took place around 10 p.m. on Saturday. The investigators shuffle all the hypotheses, although the first indications suggest that it is a crime of sexist violence. According to El Comercio , the victim suffered from heart disease, and the man punched the woman hard in the chest, who entered the HUCA seriously. The Government Delegation against Gender Violence has confirmed that the victim was 60 years old . The head of the department, Victoria Rosell, has requested respect for the victim in a message on Twitter: “Another victim of gender violence under investigation. A trans woman who was allegedly punched last night. He is in custody. The regulars of the apology of hatred and machismo, please respect at least the dead and the pain of others ”.

Sources of the investigation prefer not to reveal more data, pending the autopsy and the alleged aggressor being brought to justice.


Susana Criado Anton , a woman transsexual of 61 years , was murdered the early hours of Saturday morning at the Hospital Universitario Central de Asturias (HUCA) after being assaulted by a man , presumably his mate, who has already been arrested in the surroundings of the Plaza de Primo de Rivera in Oviedo . The man gave him a beating that "has been registered in the security cameras," according to a witness to the Asturian media.

As a police spokesperson told Efe , the events took place around ten o'clock on Saturday night and the investigators consider all the hypotheses, although the first indications suggest that it could be a crime of sexist violence .



In fact, M. , Susana's partner for years, beat her up at number 8 in the Plaza Primo de Rivera - Las Salesas building - with which she would have ended the woman's life. She was transferred to HUCA where she would die as a result of heart failure caused by blows to her face and chest, according to the newspaper El Comercio .

Two agents of the National Police.
Two agents of the National Police.

Despite this, police sources have avoided giving more information while waiting for the result of the autopsy to be known and for the alleged aggressor to be brought to justice.

The Government delegate against Gender Violence, Victoria Rosell, has asked the "habitual of hate apology" to have "respect", after the death of a 61-year-old trans woman this Sunday .

"Fist beating"
"Another victim of gender violence under investigation. A 60-year-old trans woman, who was allegedly beaten with fists last night . He is detained. The usual apologists for hatred and machismo, please respect at least the dead and the pain of others, "asked Victoria Rosell in a message posted on her Twitter account this Sunday.


The woman was allegedly " beaten with fists, " according to the delegate of the Government of the Asturian capital, who added that the perpetrator is in custody.

The case is under investigation, as reported by the Government Delegation for Gender Violence , which is collecting data on the alleged murder due to sexist violence.

If this case is confirmed, the number of women killed by gender violence would rise to 32 in 2020 and 1,065 since 2003 .


Spain: Trans woman died after brutal beating by her partner
Monday, September 14, 2020 - 10:06
RECOMMENDED 

Another act of domestic violence scandalizes Spain and this time the victim is a 60-year-old trans woman who apparently died after receiving a brutal beating from her partner.

“ A 60-year-old trans woman, who was allegedly punched last night.  He is in custody. The regulars of the apology of hatred and machismo, please respect at least the dead and the pain of others, "asked the Government delegate against Gender Violence,  Victoria Rosell , through her  Twitter account.

 As reported by EFE, Susana Criado Antón , a video would be the most evident proof of this crime in which you can see the blows that I inflicted on her chest and face.

The media reported that this would not be the first time that he suffered this type of attack and that years ago he would have also done it. The results of the autopsy are now expected to confirm the causes of his death.

https://www.elespanol.com/sociedad/sucesos/20200914/susana-mujer-asesinada-punetazos-pareja-portal-oviedo/520698272_0.html

https://boyaca.extra.com.co/noticias/internacional/espana-mujer-trans-murio-tras-brutal-golpiza-de-su-pareja-629580

https://elpais.com/sociedad/2020-09-13/muere-una-mujer-de-oviedo-que-estaba-hospitalizada-tras-ser-agredida-por-su-pareja.html

https://www.elespanol.com/sociedad/sucesos/20200913/muere-agredida-hombre-oviedo-posible-violencia-machista/520448361_0.html

https://twitter.com/VickyRosell/status/1305101392722436096

https://twitter.com/DelGobVG/status/1305095813182488576
