Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-11-02T22:18:13+00:00

====== Vicente Gonzalez Lora (Valdivia - 31 Oct 2020) ======
Created Monday 02 November 2020
@violence



Vicente González Lora
25
2020_10_31_Vicente-Gonzalez-Lora.jpg
https://www.rioenlinea.cl/aclaran-identidad-de-genero-de-vicente-gonzalez-joven-trans-asesinado-en-valdivia/
31 Oct 2020
Valdivia
Los Rios
Chile
raped and suffocated


The Movement for Homosexual Integration and Liberation (Movilh) denounced today to the Undersecretary for Crime Prevention of the Ministry of the Interior that on Saturday a young trans man was murdered in Valdivia, while regretting the actions of the Prosecutor's Office in the case, because in his public statements about the fact have not respected the gender identity of the victim.

The body of the young man, Vicente González Lora (25), was found half naked the previous Saturday on Lynch and Simpson streets, in Valdivia, with injuries to various parts of the body and suspicions of rape. The prosecutor Carlos Bahamondes, argued that the young man may have died of asphyxiation. " The injuries I had and the signs my body had are compatible with suffocation," he said.

For these events, a 58-year-old man was already detained by the PDI Homicide Squad. The suspect will be formalized today.

After talking with the family, Movilh's spokesman, Oscar Rementería, repudiated “this despicable crime where suspicions of a transphobic or gender-motivated murder are present in many close to the victim. For this reason, we have asked the Ministry of the Interior to thoroughly investigate the facts and provide free legal and psychological advice to Vicente's family as soon as possible. "

Rementería also regretted that “both the police and the Public Prosecutor's Office did not respect Vicente's gender identity, since in all his statements about these events, they have referred to him as a woman, making his legal name known. It is urgent that the Prosecutor's Office and the police educate themselves on issues of gender identity and sexual orientation, and stop assuming the sex or the name of the victims only based on their reduced understanding of social diversity and their lack of training on these issues ”.


The Movement for Homosexual Integration and Liberation (MOVILH) came out to question the Prosecutor's Office, accusing that the gender identity of the young trans man murdered in Valdivia had not been respected. The Public Ministry clarified that they were unaware of said information until the afternoon of this Monday.

This is the case of the young trans man, Vicente González Lorca, 25 years old, whose body was found in a vacant place between Lynch and Simpson streets, in Valdivia, after being murdered. This Monday, Víctor Abarca Díaz, 58, was formalized for the crime of robbery with homicide, and his preventive detention was decreed .

Due to the fact that González's body was half naked, an alleged sexual attack is being investigated by the Prosecutor's Office, for which reason during the investigation hearing it was reported that a series of examinations were requested that will be carried out on the victim.

During the afternoon of this Monday, MOVILH issued a statement, where it regretted the fact and confirmed that it requested the Undersecretariat for Crime Prevention of the Ministry of the Interior to provide free legal and psychological advice to the family.

However, MOVILH Spokesperson, Oscar Rementería, regretted that “both the police and the Prosecutor's Office did not respect Vicente's gender identity , since in all his statements about these events, they have referred to him as a woman, giving know your legal name. It is urgent that the Prosecutor's Office and the police educate themselves on issues of gender identity and sexual orientation and stop assuming the sex or the name of the victims only based on their reduced understanding of social diversity and their lack of training in these themes ”.

For her part, the Head of the Victims and Witnesses Attention Unit of the Los Ríos Prosecutor's Office, Ximena Valenzuela, explained that they were unaware of this information, after which they contacted the victim's family again, confirming that he was in a transition process.

Valenzuela, clarified that the Public Ministry respects gender identity and seeks non-discrimination based on it.

Meanwhile, the Director of the Los Ríos Feminist Lawyers Association (ABOFEM), Laura Bartolotti, assured that after contacting the family, they determined to sponsor a lawsuit, making it clear that, without prejudice to Vicente's gender identity, still There is no precedent to establish a definitive legal classification of the crime , adding that - in his opinion - this was not an act of robbery with common homicide, but there are gender reasons and the classification of a crime of femicide could even be discussed.


Movilh denounced to the Government the murder of a young transgender in Valdivia

The Movement of Integration and Homosexual Liberation (Movilh) denounced today before the Undersecretary of Crime Prevention of the Ministry of the Interior that last Saturday a young trans man was murdered in Valdivia, while regretting the proceeding of the Prosecutor's Office in the case, because in their public statements about the event have not respected the gender identity of the victim.

The body of Vicente González Lora (25) was found semi-naked on Lynch con Simpson streets, in Valdivia, with injuries to various parts of the bodies and suspicions of rape.

Prosecutor Carlos Bahamondes argued that the young man could have died from asphyxia. " The injuries he had and the signs his body had are compatible with suffocation, " he said.

For these events, a 58-year-old man was already detained by the PDI Homicide Squad. The suspect will be formalized this day.

After talking with the family, the Movilh spokesman, Oscar Rementería, repudiated "this despicable crime where suspicions of a transphobic or gender-motivated murder of Vicente are present in many close to the victim."

" We have asked the Ministry of the Interior to thoroughly investigate the events and provide free legal and psychological advice to Vicente's family in the short term, " he added.

Rementería also regretted that " both the police and the Prosecutor's Office did not respect Vicente's gender identity, since in all his statements about these events, they have referred to him as a woman, making his legal name known."

" It is urgent that the Prosecutor's Office and the police educate themselves on issues of gender identity and sexual orientation and stop assuming the sex or name of the victims only based on their reduced understanding of social diversity and their lack of training. on these issues ”, declared the representative of Movilh.

https://www.diariofutrono.cl/noticia/actualidad/2020/11/victima-de-calle-lynch-era-joven-transgenero-movilh-pide-educacion-para-las-policias

https://www.primeralineaprensa.cl/?p=5383

https://www.elciudadano.com/chile/movilh-denuncia-al-ministerio-del-interior-asesinato-de-joven-trans-en-valdivia/11/02/

https://burdas.cl/valdivia-encuentran-violado-y-asesinado-a-joven-trans/

https://www.rioenlinea.cl/aclaran-identidad-de-genero-de-vicente-gonzalez-joven-trans-asesinado-en-valdivia/

https://www.elperiodista.cl/movilh-denuncia-al-ministerio-del-interior-asesinato-de-joven-trans-en-valdivia/

https://www.radioagricultura.cl/nacional/2020/11/02/movilh-denuncio-al-gobierno-el-asesinato-de-joven-trans-en-valdivia.html

https://www.diariofutrono.cl/noticia/actualidad/2020/11/fin-de-semana-negro-para-valdivia-tras-asesinato-de-dos-jovenes-mujeres
