Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-13T20:16:23+01:00

====== Victoria Basakovskaya (Novosibirsk - 13 Oct 2020) ======
Created Tuesday 13 October 2020
@violence




Victoria Basakovskaya
23
2020_10_13_Victoria-Basakovskaya.jpg
https://ngs.ru/text/criminal/2020/10/13/69502403/
Novosibirsk
Russia
strangled


Victoria Basakovskaya was strangled by her ex-boyfriend - the cop who reported her missing and then "helped" to lead the official search.


14 Oct, 2020 18:14 / Updated 1 hour ago
Get short URL
Russian cop confesses to strangling transgender ex-girlfriend, after reporting her missing and helping to lead official search
FILE PHOTO © Sputnik / Tabyldy Kadyrbekov
6
Follow RT on
By Jonny Tickle

A Russian policeman has confessed to murdering his transgender ex-girlfriend. According to reports, the officer committed murder out of jealousy, before cutting off her finger to send decoy messages from the dead woman's phone.
On October 13, the body of 24-year-old Viktoria Basakovskaya was found in the village of Burmistrovo, close to Novosibirsk, the largest city in Siberia and 3,000km east of Moscow. Eight days previously, a 20-year-old policeman, named only as Denis K., announced her disappearance and even helped put up flyers. On the poster, Basakovskaya was named as Nikolai Basakovsky, the name she was born with and the name on her passport.

RT
© vk.com
After some time, police suspicion began to focus on one of their fellow officers, Basakovskaya's ex-boyfriend. After interrogation, he confessed and revealed where he had hidden her body. According to the local investigative committee, she was found with strangulation marks on her neck.

Also on rt.com Michael Jackson abuse debate reignited: No room for defense in the #MeToo era?
The likely motive for the murder is jealousy, according to an investigation by local Novosibirsk newspaper ngs.ru. After speaking to a close friend of Basakovskaya, it was revealed that she met Denis K. last year. He worked as a patrol officer for the railway police. Prior to dating Denis K., Basakovskaya had a long and complicated relationship with another man, named Maxim, and Denis K. remained jealous of that relationship throughout.

"He is a mentally ill person. I do not know how he was accepted into the police," said Alina (not her real name), a friend of Basakovskaya. "The relationship between Vika and Denis was not very good… According to Vika, he sometimes beat her to such a state that she lost consciousness."

According to Alina, she received a text message on the afternoon of October 5 from Viktoria's phone. The SMS declared that she was heading to visit her old boyfriend Maxim in Berdsk, another Siberian city. It also stated that Alina shouldn't worry, thanking her for her great friendship and also praising Denis K. It is presumed that at the time of these texts, she was already dead.

Also on rt.com 'Cancel Culture' reaches Russia: Legacy of Cheburaska author under threat after daughter's accusations of violence & abuse
"He killed her early in the morning, and messages allegedly from Vika came to me in the afternoon," said Alina. "He cut off her finger and used it to unlock her phone to send a message. He wanted to cover his tracks."

Sometime after Baskovskaya went missing, Alina began to suspect Denis. She reported him to the police. Eventually, the police officer confessed to the murder and revealed where he had hidden the body – at a site 700 meters from the village of Burmistrovo.

As per Russian law, Denis K. faces between six and 15 years in prison.



A police officer in Novosibirsk, Russia, has confessed to killing his missing ex-girlfriend, a 24-year-old trans woman, after leading the charge to find her.

Viktoria Basakovskaya's body was found in the southern village of Burmistrovo and showed signs of strangulation, local investigators said on Tuesday (October 13). Officers said an officer identified as Denis K, 20, has admitted to strangling Basakovskaya after a violent discussion in October. He then dragged his body to the outskirts of town.

An anonymous police source told ngs.ru news agency that the officer was the victim's ex-boyfriend and strangled her "out of jealousy." "During the conflict, the suspect strangled his acquaintance, after which he took his body out of the village and hid it," said Anastasia Kuleshova, a senior assistant to the head of the Investigations Directorate, who works for the ICR in the region of Novosibirsk.

An actor confesses to being gay with 100 years
Orlando bombing survivor confesses to being "ex-gay"
The cop allegedly strangled his trans girlfriend. Then he posed as his avenger.

After the murder, Denis was the first to report that Basakovskaya was missing. She continued to cover the neighborhood and cooperated with investigators trying to locate her. He reportedly eventually broke down and admitted killing her, then leading officers to her body.

The city police department quickly finished its work. Basakovskaya's death comes at a truly dangerous time for LGBT + Russians, as lawmakers have stepped up their spike attacks on a community that has long been eroded by vicious politics.

President Vladimir Putin's populist campaigns often target the LGBT + community, sparking hatred among his most loyal support bloc, the Russian Orthodox Church. With his brand of social conservatism and nostalgia for Soviet Russia, Putin has alarmed major LGBT + rights groups outside of Russia with the ways in which he is endangering young gay men. Various points in his campaign for a recent constitutional referendum were potentially anti-LGBT +, from the threat to effectively erase trans people from existence to the constitutional ban on marriage equality.

These plots are set around the foundations of his anti-LGBT + political plans - a ban on so-called "gay propaganda" that for years has silenced the voices of thousands of gay Russians .


23-year-old Victoria Basakovskaya disappeared on October 5.  Later, her body was found in the Iskitim region.  A week later, on October 13, 2020, it became known that Denis K., at that time an active police officer, was detained on suspicion of Victoria's murder.  Presumably, the man killed her out of jealousy, they lived together.


Strangled and taken out: investigators told the details of the murder of a transgender girl near Novosibirsk
Detained 20-year-old police officer has already confessed to the crime


SO opens case after murder of transgender girl

The Investigative Committee told the circumstances of the death of a 24-year-old transgender girl Victoria Basakovskaya - it is known that a 20-year-old police officer of the Zheleznodorozhny District, Denis K., was detained on suspicion of murder.

The murder took place on the morning of October 5 at the house of the suspect in the village of Burmistrovo, Iskitimsky District, Novosibirsk Region.

“During the conflict, the suspect strangled his acquaintance, after which he took his body outside the village and hid it,” said Anastasia Kuleshova, senior assistant to the head of the Investigative Directorate of the ICR in the Novosibirsk Region.


The deceased transgender girl has not yet had time to change the gender in her passport, so the investigators call her the victim, Nikolai Basakovsky, according to the documents. According to an NGS source in law enforcement, the suspect himself reported the disappearance of Victoria to the police and actively participated in her search.

Updated . A close friend of the murdered Victoria told the NGS journalist how she helped to find the criminal (the strange correspondence helped - we publish it ).

As a result, the detainee himself showed the investigators where Victoria's body was hidden - 700 meters from the village of Burmistrovo. The deceased had traces of strangulation.

On this fact, the investigators opened a criminal case under Part 1 of Art. 105 of the Criminal Code of the Russian Federation (murder). Police officers identified the suspect and detained him. It turned out to be a 20-year-old PPP employee.

The press service of the Main Directorate of the Ministry of Internal Affairs for the NSO confirmed the information to the NGS correspondent that the suspect in the murder is an officer of the patrol police of one of the departments of internal affairs of Novosibirsk.

- The head of the regional head office made a decision to dismiss the specified employee from the internal affairs bodies for negative reasons. He will be punished in accordance with the current legislation of the Russian Federation, the department stressed.

Last year, Victoria Basakovskaya told the NGS correspondent about her life, family support and the conflict with the Novosibirsk fitness club .





13 October 2020, 19:02

"He cut off her finger to send a message": details of the murder of a transgender girl
A close friend of the deceased told the NHS how she helped to figure out the killer. And showed a strange correspondence

Details of the murder of a transgender girl near Novosibirsk

Today it became known about the brutal murder of a 24-year-old transgender girl Victoria Basakovskaya - on October 13, her body was found 700 meters from the village of Burmistrovo, Iskitimsky District, Novosibirsk Region. On suspicion of murder, a 20-year-old police officer of the Zheleznodorozhny district of Novosibirsk, Denis K., was detained. Friends say that Victoria and Denis met earlier, but broke up this spring. NGS crime journalist Alena Istomina talked with relatives of the murdered Victoria Basakovskaya and learned how Denis tried to confuse the investigators. Details are in our material.

PLOT
The murder of a transgender girl
Victoria is from Kazakhstan, where she has all her relatives. In Novosibirsk, one of her relatives is only her friend Alina (name has been changed), with whom she recently lived together. Victoria was transgender, but she did not have time to change the gender in her passport and was listed as Nikolai Basakovsky according to her documents.

"I beat so that I lost consciousness"

Victoria met 20-year-old Denis K. last year. The guy comes from Burmistrovo, he graduated from college in Novosibirsk, right after the army he was taken to work in the Railway Police Department as a patrol officer.

According to Alina, before Denis, Victoria had a long and difficult relationship with Maxim - and the policeman was constantly jealous of her ex, it slipped in conversations with friends, and in the stories of Victoria herself.

- He is a mentally ill person, I don't know how he was taken to the police, - Alina wonders. - The relationship between Vicki and Denis was not very good. She constantly cried to me, complained, called me. There was a case when Vika was cooking apples in caramel, and hot caramel hit her finger, but instead of calming her down, Denis began to swear. According to Vicki, he sometimes beat to such a state that she lost consciousness, after she came to herself under the covers on the bed, and he stood over her and roared.

On his social media page, Denis K. has many reposts about the good deeds of the police, promoting a healthy lifestyle and taking pictures with his nephews. There is a caption under one of the photographs: “Think before you do a bad deed. You have a child behind you who thinks that you are a hero for him! "

Helped search and got confused in testimony

This spring, Denis and Victoria, according to friends, officially broke up, but continued to maintain a relationship. Therefore, no one was surprised when the policeman called Victoria to Burmistrovo, to a party where more friends were supposed to be present.

At first, Alina was not worried - until, on the afternoon of October 5, she received a strange message from Victoria, in which she praised Denis, scolded her ex-boyfriend Maxim, and stressed several times that she would go to him in Berdsk because he wanted to kill her. Alina was alerted by mistakes, so she tried to call Victoria - no one picked up the phone, although she usually dropped the call if she could not speak, or wrote messages.

Presumably, these messages were sent when Victoria was already dead & nbsp;
Presumably, these messages were sent when Victoria was already dead. 

The text of the message that was sent from Victoria's account

Spelling and punctuation preserved

I have long wanted to tell you that for about 2 months I have had dreams with Maxim and everything related to the fact that he will not see me and wants to get rid of me.

I can no longer do this all the time in my thoughts thanks to the fact that I support nothing anymore, although I pretend that everything is fine.

I wanted to warn you that I would go to Berdsk, or rather, I’m already here, I will solve this problem, please don’t bother me until I arrive. I am very grateful to you for everything you do and did. I also ask you to tell everyone who will ask so that they don’t lose me.

I will also tell you about Dinka yesterday, the pancake herself remembered everything that happened, he is very good and dosikhpor supports me just sometimes there is a surge of emotions and memories. And in general I wanted and want you to start communicating with him, he is as humble and kind as you are. I'll try to start communicating with him, I think you will have common topics and if he doesn't like something, help him and with the video and correspondence you know what they are, he is not needed, he is really happy and when we spend time with the children it is evident. I want him to stay the same, help me in this if you think it's necessary. If he lives on <...> talk to him. I am really very grateful to YOU ??and Denis for helping me to survive all this with Maxim, but with Dinka there were also difficulties and problems, but I am grateful to them. But with Maxim I can’t do it, I’ll figure it out alone and decide everything.

Whoever you think is necessary tell this, I know that you will do everything right. But don't tell Dinka this only superficially, otherwise he will find out and start looking for something else, he doesn't do it)

Read write please I am not indifferent to your answer.

These messages from Victoria Basakovskaya's account were sent on October 5 at 16:00 - presumably at that time the girl was already dead.

“He killed her early in the morning, and messages allegedly from Vicki came to me in the afternoon,” says Alina, a friend of the murdered woman. - He just cut off her finger and with that finger unlocked her phone to send a message. I wanted to steer away from myself.

Denis himself wrote a statement about the disappearance of Victoria and actively helped to find the girl. He even found Maxim's address, to which Victoria allegedly left Burmistrovo.

https://planettransgender.com/russian-cop-confesses-to-killing-his-transgender-ex-girl-friend/

https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2020/10/13/trans-woman-strangled-ex-boyfriend-police-viktoria-basakovskaya-denis-k/

https://www.rt.com/russia/503469-russian-cop-transgender-killing-case/?fbclid=IwAR0B-ztBa54rUDK41zCNEcrvvX5pMy2kJGXS4kRNy1GKGJCBkIiIGrxMPzk

https://www.cromosomax.com/49686-un-policia-confiesa-ser-el-asesino-de-su-novia-trans

https://ngs.ru/text/theme/19759/

https://ngs.ru/text/criminal/2020/10/13/69502661/

https://ngs.ru/text/criminal/2020/10/13/69502403/

https://ngs.ru/text/criminal/2020/10/13/69502721/

https://ngs.ru/text/incidents/2020/10/13/69502747/
