Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-17T22:59:54+01:00

====== Alanys Matheusa (Campo Grande - 14 Apr 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 17 June 2020




Alanys Matheusa
22
https://www.midiamax.com.br/policia/2020/mesmo-depois-de-morta-advogada-de-ms-e-vitima-de-racismo-e-policia-investiga
14 Apr 2020
Campo Grande
Mato Grosso do Sul
Brazil
cardiorespiratory arrest

Even after her death, the young trans and lawyer Alanys Matheusa, was a victim of transphobic attacks on social networks. The crime was reported to the police, who have already registered a police report and started investigations. The case will be framed as a crime of racism. “As there was a delay in passing a law that criminalized transphobia, the Supreme Court decided to frame the crime of racism,” explained Chief Bruno Urban, from the 7th Civil Police station in the capital.

Alanys died on April 14 in Campo Grande after suffering a cardiac arrest. The death of the first black trans woman to become a lawyer in Mato Grosso do Sul, also had repercussions on social networks. Several transphobic demonstrations came to the attention of the Public Ministry, which reported the case to the Civil Police.

Delegate Bruno Urban is at the forefront of the investigations. He explained that two people are investigated. “There are two profiles that made prejudiced demonstrations against her. These people will be duly identified, notified and indicted, ”said Urban.



Alanys Matheusa was recognized as an exception. At 22, she earned a law degree, passed the OAB (Brazilian Bar Association) and became the first black transsexual lawyer in Mato Grosso do Sul. At 22, on Tuesday morning (14), Alanys passed away victim of a cardiorespiratory arrest.

According to Sesau (Municipal Health Secretariat ), Alanys was admitted to Upa Leblon at 7 am and his death was recorded at 7:20 am. She was rescued by Samu, and had a cardiac arrest. The unit's team tried to revive her, but she couldn't resist. The secretary added that the report will be released to the family after the death certificate.

One of the nieces, through social media, said that Alanys "suffered from cardiac arrhythmia". This morning, still according to his niece, Alanys woke up well, but "started to shake from nowhere", when the ambulance was called.

In December 2019, Lado B was at Alanys' residence for an interview about his graduation and his admiration that led the entire periphery to the degree at UCDB (Universidade Católica Dom Bosco). - CREDITO: CAMPO GRANDE NEWS

Trans, lawyer and black: Alanys Matheusa dies at 22
A resident of Guanadi, which she called 'quebrada', the young prodigy for the age, class and LGBT movement, had a respiratory arrest on Tuesday morning (14)

The young lawyer Alanys Matheusa died on Tuesday morning (14). One point off the curve, the trans, black and peripheral woman living in Bairro Guanandi had a cardiorespiratory arrest. According to Sesau (Municipal Health Secretariat), Alanys was admitted to Upa Leblon at 7 am and his death was confirmed at 7:20 am.

The young woman gained national notoriety in the last year after being featured in Intercept Brasil magazine as the first black trans woman to become a lawyer in Mato Grosso do Sul.

Alanys won a 100% Prouni scholarship at a university in the capital Campo Grande and passed the OAB exam while he was still studying. The young woman's graduation took place at the end of last year. The young woman was already beyond other trans and transvestite women, who already have the challenge of completing elementary and high school.

The lawyer at her graduation in March this year (Reproduction, Facebook)
“My mom told me that I had to keep going, because there would be a lot of difficult times in life. Listening to your advice took me to the university. I'm ending up as the only black woman in the class ”, said in an interview at the time the young woman who still dreamed of becoming a judge.

According to family members and close friends of the lawyer, Alanys already suffered from cardiorespiratory problems. In posting on social networks, many did not believe the news and paid tribute to the young inspiration. "I will always remember her as the wonderful person she was and her light will continue to illuminate our walk," wrote a colleague.

The LGBT State Forum released a note of condolence in honor of the young woman:

It is with regret that we reported the death today in the morning of our fighting partner and lawyer Alanys Matheusa. She was the first black and transsexual woman to graduate in law in Mato Grosso do Sul. This achievement already gives us the dimension of her career struggle, militancy and resistance. She defined herself as a Marxist, anti-capitalist and judge in training. In this moment of pain and goodbye, we express our sympathy and solidarity with family and friends. 

https://www.facebook.com/alanys.matheusa

https://www.midiamax.com.br/policia/2020/mesmo-depois-de-morta-advogada-de-ms-e-vitima-de-racismo-e-policia-investiga

https://www.campograndenews.com.br/lado-b/comportamento-23-08-2011-08/alanys-matheusa-1a-advogada-trans-negra-do-ms-morre-aos-22-anos

https://www.midiamax.com.br/midiamais/comportamento/2020/trans-advogada-e-negra-alanys-matheusa-morre-aos-22-anos

https://www.facebook.com/groups/pgmreal/permalink/3722201861186421/
