Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-17T23:00:34+01:00

====== Alessia Cirillo (Apr 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 17 June 2020



Alessia Cirillo
30
15 Apr 2020 (report date)
Perugia
Italy
cancer


An "O" instead of an "A" on a funeral poster to reject once again that choice of the child never accepted. And so Alessia had to undergo a further humiliation, struck down only 30 years by lung cancer. A disease faced in Perugia , the city where she moved three years ago, after the family had driven her out of her home in Pompeii , unable to bear the scandal due to a TV interview released by the trans .
 
«On that occasion Enrico Lucci from Le Iene had followed a pilgrimage of the LGBT community to Montevergine on a visit to Mamma Schiavona- says Paola, who also reported the case on Facebook and in La Radiazza -. And Alessia had been interviewed with the enthusiasm and exuberance that distinguished her ». But the parents didn't like that television appearance: «They knew that this adopted son actually wanted to be a woman, but as long as it remained private, they had pretended nothing. Then, when Alessia went to tell it on television, it was too great a shame for them and they sent her away ».


In fact, Alessia was born in Moscow and had arrived in Italy at the age of seven, adopted by a family from Pompeii : "Already in Russia the fate had been cruel to her - explains Paola -. His father did business with the Russian underworld and was once kidnapped with his family, who also had to witness the killing of a sister of Alessia ". READ ALSO  Coronavirus in Naples, the anger of the trans: "We are hungry, we go down to the square" With this heavy emotional background on his shoulders, the child arrives in Campania , adopted by a family from Pompeii . Here it grows with a body that betrays the genetic identity enshrined in the identity card: «
 


Alessia has always been a woman , even in physical form - says her friend -. Before she got sick, she had started the path for sex change, also asking for the modification of the documents, but unfortunately she was unable to complete it. This is why that " Signor Alessio Cirillo " written by the family on his funeral manifesto is an outrage to his memory ». A final blow to a life that gave her more pain than joy: «Alessia was tired, consumed by the battle to be accepted, then by abandonment, before the Russian family and after the Neapolitan one. Finally, from disease and chemo, who had always faced with a smile on her lips, going to the appointments with doctors and nurses fully dressed, stilettos and fashionable clothes, so much so that she became the ward mascot, there at the Perugia hospital . This is why I could not remain silent when I saw those posters published by a family that never went to visit her in the hospital. Yet she hoped for it until a week ago, when she finally stopped suffering. "
 
But in the Umbrian capital the trans had found a third family, the Spazio Bianco association , which had practically adopted it and had taken care of it during the illness. Thanks to the volunteers of this organization Alessia had come into contact with Vladimir Luxuria. And the writer today wanted to remember her with a video message published on Facebook : "The Spazio Bianco association has posted posters with the name" Alessia Cirillo ", while her adoptive family, in Pompeii , not only had her name written to male, but even added " Mr. Alessio Cirillo " - said the former deputy, among other things. Alessia certainly died of the disease, but was killed by a family that stopped being such when she no longer wanted to welcome this daughter just because she was trans. "

They had abandoned her because they did not accept her as she was, that is, a woman. They had given her that name, Alessio, and she had changed the last vowel, to feel it more his, but this for the family had been an affront that was washed with a last scar, one which Alessia cannot rebel against. Because Alessia died after a three-year battle against leukemia, a battle in which her family left her alone but then she arrogated the right to write, on the mortuary announcements, that Alessio Cirillo died. There is no respect, there is no compassion, there is no love. I just hate it. 

"How much cruelty can exist in the hearts of people, how much dishonor you still have to endure from the people you loved so much" says Alessia's friend Paola Cristiano: you made yourself an ordeal of three years always hoping that your family would enter the hospital door . That male name you hated so much, the male pronouns you hated so much, at least they could give you a transparency called Alessia. The desire of a person must be respected at least in death. Remember that you will always and only be Alessia. You are a star and they will never turn you off. " 
Alessia also remembers Daniela Lourdes Falanga, president of Arcigay Napoli: "Alessia has worked a lot in her life and has also lived with great pride her transition path. She lived in Pompeii but the coming out for her was a moment of pain, because he broke the strongest ties, the family ones, definitively. For this reason, after a short time out and about with friends, facing the difficulties of a life that he had to bear alone, he decided to move to Perugia where he started to fight against leukemia, which unfortunately came twice to upset her life. And so Alessia died, among the people who cared for her and away from her family, in the courage of a woman who chose freedom ". 
Alessia, who until a few years ago was called Alessio, was 30 years old. She died after struggling with leukemia for two years. Family members, who never accepted the woman's decision to change sex, announced his death by ordering funeral posters with the male name from the agency. This decision infuriated those who really loved the girl. "Alessia, this is the greeting of those who welcomed and cared for you despite your loneliness as" Transgender daughter ". This is the greeting with your name, the one longed for. Luckily you were accompanied in your smiles of endurance and determination until the end, "wrote Daniela Lourdes Falanga, president of Arcigay Napoli and trans activist in memory of Alessia Cirillo, transgender bell who died a few days ago in Perugia.

Instead her friend Paola Cristiano on social media wrote: “But how much cruelty can exist in people's hearts. How much dishonor you still have to endure from the people you loved so much - these are the indignant words of Paola Cristiano -. You had a three-year ordeal always hoping your family would come in through that hospital door. That male name you hated so much, the male pronouns you hated so much, at least they could give you a parenthesis called Alessia. The desire of a person must be respected at least in death. Remember that you will always and only be Alessia. You are a star and they will never turn you off. "

https://www.ilmattino.it/napoli/cronaca/trans_muore_di_cancro_napoli_nome_maschile_sui_manifesti_funebri_uccisa_dalla_famiglia-5184406.html

https://www.globalist.it/news/2020/04/20/il-nome-da-uomo-sul-necrologio-la-transfobia-della-famiglia-umilia-alessia-anche-nella-morte-2056636.html

https://www.notizieaudaci.it/notizie-attualita/alessia-cirillo-manifesto-funebre-22-aprile/20903.html?
https://www.sardegnalive.net/news/in-italia/46578/alessia-trans-campana-muore-per-una-leucemia-la-famiglia-ha-voluto-manifesti-funebri-al-maschile

https://www.facebook.com/paola.cristiano.148/posts/275797466752514

https://www.facebook.com/notizieaudaci/posts/3600729496620121

https://www.facebook.com/Vladimirluxuriaofficial/videos/vb.1322655514438594/248398006307627/?type=2&theater

