Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-02T17:24:04+01:00

====== Corey Alexander (Aug 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 02 September 2020
@medical



Corey Alexander (Xan West)
18 (?) Aug 2020
diabetes


Corey  Alexander (Xan West), our beloved friend and fellow author, passed away suddenly and unexpectedly in their home. Corey  was a beloved member of many communities, including but not limited to the Romance and Erotica writing community and the SFF writing community, and they were a fierce advocate for disabled, autistic, queer, trans writers as well as marginalized writers in general. They were a kind and generous supporter and nurturer of other writers, and a talented and influential writer themself. Corey's fiction and nonfiction were groundbreaking.

In addition to their writing and advocacy, Corey spent twenty years working in the field of intimate violence (particularly sexual assault and intimate partner violence) in a variety of roles, as a hotline and shelter volunteer, and a volunteer community educator. Corey has been devoted to creating community sexuality and kink education for queer and kink communities. Their sudden tragic death is a huge blow.

I am R.B. Lemberg, and I am one of Corey's closest friends. I am fundraising on their behalf to give them a dignified burial at a Jewish cemetery in the Bay Area, with a service led by a trans rabbi. 

Our final expenses are unclear at the moment, since there are many  logistical hurdles  to overcome, but we anticipate:

$7000 approx. - burial plot, plaque, urn and everything else associated with burial.
$500 - rabbinical services
$1500 - cushion for accidental expenses, legal, and estate-related expenses (amounts TBA)

We will account for all funds received transparently.

We anticipate running into unexpected expenses, so please give generously. Any excess will be donated to charities representing causes that were near and dear to Corey’s name; we will be designating where any overage goes sometime in the next few weeks, once we have a better handle on costs and income. 

Updates (5)


 got some bad news yesterday.
It’s sort of the way of the internet that sometimes we miss things, or find things, totally by chance.
I found out, totally by chance – because a fellow kinky queer author had posted a screen-shot of someone else’s twitter post to instagram, of all things – that another fellow kinky queer author has died.
 
Corey Alexander – a writer that you may know as blogger TGStoneButch or under the pen name Xan West – was found dead in their apartment, apparently due to complications related to diabetes.
 
There’s been a go-fund-me to cover their funeral expenses (information here) which I think has been fully funded and, as such, has been paused (rather than taken down – possibly because there may be further, unexpected expenses to cover. Not sure).
For folks who want to make in-memorium donations, there’s a list in the works and I’ll update this post once it becomes available.
In the interim, and while the above go-fund-me is paused, I’ve been told that donations to trans lifeline, in Corey’s name, would be welcome.
Donating to a disability justice org of your choice would also be a way to honour their memory, as would just… offering some cash to help another disabled or chronically ill trans person cover their medical expenses (hit up #TransCrowdFund and/or #DisabilityCrowdFund on twitter to help someone out directly).
 
If you are a fan of their work and have questions about their author-estate, there is an FAQ here. Needless to say, there are other things taking priority right now, so please be considerate and be patient.
 
Shira Glassman has opened a virtual room in-which to sit shivah (link goes to information, not to the zoom-room itself).
 
There will be a virtual Minchah and Kaddish for them (link goes to information) this Friday, August 21, at 4:30pm EDT, to-which all are welcome.
So, y’know, I know what I’m doing this Friday, as it turns out.
 
There is a virtual guest-book where you can post brief messages and memories of Corey (and if you are like me and “only” knew them online, that still counts).
This is what I wrote.
I didn’t know Corey particularly well, but we’d been aware of each other for years. Shop talk on twitter and comments on each other’s blog posts, that kind of thing. Their writing on the vulnerability of dominance and the violent desires of sadism, as well as their work to challenge the fantasy image of dominants, tops, and sadists as inscrutable, consistently confident, and without needs or fears, has both helped me find words to put around my own experiences, and pushed me in terms of my own writing. I’m so sorry they’ve died. They remain an inspiration and I’ll miss their thoughtful presence in my life.

 
It was a short message, and I guess I want to elaborate a little bit.
I would feel very presumptuous calling Corey my friend. We didn’t know each other like that. But friendly acquaintance, peer and colleague? Yes. For years. I was part of the blog hop they did to promote their book, Show Yourself To Me. Their writing has influenced and informed my own.
 
Like I said, they gave me language and a way of talking about how embodying and existing within my own insatiable, violent desire is a vulnerable position to occupy. They helped me notice the ways that, oh, gosh, how do I name this… “dom-normativity”? Subcultural social expectations of Dominant Behaviour? …how That Stuff maps onto heteronormativity and expectations around what it means to be (conventionally) masculine which, in turn, helped me dig further into what it means for me, as a Femme, to cultivate and nurture my (sense of consensual) entitlement as a Domme and the reasons why my dominance-as-practice sometimes fails to resonate with, or mirror, the ways dominance is conventionally portrayed (in, say, BDSM porn or in people’s workshop-presenter bios)[1].
 
Weirdly – or maybe not so weirdly, synergy being what it is – their writing about being Butch (like the writing of other leather butches, as it turns out) has given me ways to articulate elements and aspects of my own Femme identity, leather and otherwise, about being “all mouth” and yet having my teeth clamped shut, about the ways that feminine appetite is coded as monstrous and how that affects me (and expectations directed at me) as a dominant, sadistic woman who is both emphatically queer and somewhat “conventional” in the outward presentation of my (Middle-Aged, Nice White Lady) femininity[2].
 
I’m sorry they’ve died. Far too young. They were kind and thoughtful in my interactions with them. I liked their brain and what they had to say. I think what they had to say was important.
What can we do but continue to explore this stuff, continue to name it and bring it to the foreground? What can we do but pick up their Work and carry it on?
 

For Corey Alexander[3]
 
[…]
Cicadas howling
their brief lives
in summer heat
A visceral response
 
to a death not theirs
but mine
to mourn
It would be presumptuous
to call you friend
or back from the dead
demand my old colleague
come to my candle
be present
in the recounting of the stories
 
you wrote
But you’re in every word
[…]


Twitter: https://twitter.com/TGStoneButch

https://queeroticpoetry.wordpress.com/2020/08/19/remembering-corey-alexander-tgstonebutch-xan-west/

https://syrens.wordpress.com/2020/08/19/remembering-corey-alexander-tgstonebutch-xan-west/

https://twitter.com/search?q=%40TGStoneButch&src=typed_query&f=live

https://twitter.com/RB_Lemberg/status/1296073457126576128

https://www.gofundme.com/f/r8sbc-corey039s-funeral-expenses
