Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-22T21:07:52+01:00

====== Fernanda Antelo (Santa Cruz - 31 May 2020) ======
Created Monday 22 June 2020
@medical



Fernanda Antelo
32
31 May 2020
Santa Cruz
Bolivia
clinical neglect

The tragic death of a trans woman who uncovers social inequality in this crisis
Fernanda Antelo died in absolute poverty, after seeking help in three hospitals in Santa Cruz that denied her care. This shows that the discourse of "We are all in this together" is an empty slogan that is demagogically reproduced from the State, because the truth is that the health emergency has revealed that health in this society is a privilege for few. The State is responsible.

Delilah Fabreger

Bread and Roses Militant
Thursday, June 4


Fernanda Antelo was a trans woman who worked as a sex worker in the city of Santa Cruz, an activity that most people in this community find themselves forced by, discrimination and lack of opportunities. She was a carrier of a disease of which she was not aware until recently, which greatly weakened her health, however, due to the financial needs that afflicted her, she continued to work. She lived alone in an accommodation that she was kicked out of, as she was unable to pay the rent due to her quarantine. In this way she had to spend her last days sleeping on the streets, already in very poor health. Some friends of hers managed to locate her and tried to help her with the few means they had,

There were 3 hospitals that denied Fernanda's attention, the first was the Lazareto Center, where they did not attend her and left her lying under a tree for two days. According to the statements of Muriel Arteaga Justiniano, activist of the Trans population in Santa Cruz, the reason was that the staff was afraid of contacting her for the coronavirus. After that, she was taken to the Pueblo Nuevo del Plan 3000 Health Center, where she was hospitalized for only a few hours, despite her serious state of health, and then she was dispatched with a serum in hand. Finally, and already vanished, they transferred her to the San Juan de Dios hospital, where they again denied her care since there was no space to attend to her.

The next day, last Saturday, while her friends and relatives made a last effort to get care for Fernanda, she died in her brothers' house, where she finally returned after three years. The funds that her friends were able to raise for her care were finally used for her burial.

The case of Fernanda not only reveals the prevailing social inequalities in our country, where poverty is a determining factor when it comes to obtaining medical care and much more so that it is of quality, but also shows us once again the discrimination against that trans women and the diverse sex community are subjected every day.  We repudiate the transphobia that Fernanda was a victim of! Fernanda was not the victim of a single type of discrimination, but of several: for her sexual orientation, for her work and for her economic-social condition. The violence to which trans women are subjected every day is devastating and often invisible, but it is not less than the life expectancy of a trans woman is less than 40 years (OAS), because this community is subjected to systematic violence resulting from transphobia and the conditions in which they practice as sex workers.

The violation and exclusion of sexual diversity reveals the repressive role and systematic discrimination that emanates from the State and allied institutions such as the churches. Fernanda's death and many more anonymous fernandas are a social crime.

Today their situation is even more threatened with the self-styled transitional government whose representatives like Áñez openly wield an ultra-religious, anti-rights, deeply conservative and reactionary position.

Fernanda's death cannot go unpunished, we denounce that human rights organizations such as the ombudsman, the APDHB and others, remain silent in the face of these brutal cases of violation of basic rights such as the right to life itself.

No trans woman, nor anyone from the diverse sex community should be discriminated against in medical centers. Enough social complicity, your rights must be respected equally. We demand justice for Fernanda! We will not be silent: the State is responsible!

The collapse of hospitals is not the fault of the people, but is the result of a State that for years has preferred to give money to the repressive forces, while relegating health to the background. Businesses, such as health care itself, have been systematically privileged, dismantling public health while strengthening the private health system, which is developing most strongly in the city of Santa Cruz. Now, with Áñez and her government, the issue is aggravated due to the interests that have prevailed behind the coup d'etat, its scandalous corruption and the lack of real policies to combat both the pandemic that we are going through and other diseases that,.

We demand that Fernanda's case not go unpunished, we denounce that the State is responsible for her death and for the other hundreds of deaths as a result of the collapse of our health system.

We demand biosecurity measures that guarantee the life of health personnel in all hospitals.

We demand that hotels be made available to serve as homes and shelters and that no one should sleep on the streets, all this for free.

We demand the centralization of the private and public health system, under the control of Health workers, and that if the resources that do exist stop financing the repressive forces and save companies and banks, and make themselves available to save lifes.



A trans woman from the LGBT community died at the age of 32 in dramatic conditions in the city of Santa Cruz, after a three-day pilgrimage seeking medical attention at various health centers in the Plano 3000 area. Fernanda's health was complicated by being HIV positive during the pandemic, as he spent the last few days sleeping on the streets and unable to find food. The health system did not want to address it as a fear of the Corona Virus. She died alone

Trans woman dies in dramatic conditions after pilgrimage to three health centers
CategoriesLifetimeLabels, Coronavirus in Bolivia
05/31/2020
IN SANTA CRUZ

Sad life had the life of Fernanda Antelo, a transgender woman. Photo / GLTB activists

A transgender woman from the LGBT community died at the age of 32 in dramatic conditions in the city of Santa Cruz, after a pilgrimage for three days seeking medical attention at various health centers in the Plan 3000 area.

The activist of the trans population in Santa Cruz, Muriel Arteaga Justiniano, reported that her companion with a social name, Fernanda Antelo, was a sex worker who fell into an economic crisis from a very young age and was aggravated by the coronavirus pandemic.

Fernanda's health was complicated four days ago as a result of being HIV positive that she did not know. In these conditions, she continued working, until she began to decline, showing malnutrition, because she had not eaten for several days, had low defenses and began to suffer seizures.

As a result of her activity, she decided to move away from her family and went to live alone in an accommodation in the Los Pozos area, where she could not cover the rents because the emergency fell in the middle of the pandemic and the owner of the accommodation threw her out.

For this reason, her last days were spent sleeping on the streets and unable to find food or to be able to move in front of her friends and family, due to transportation difficulties and strong quarantine restrictions.

Muriel explained that on Thursday of the week they found out about her delicate state of health and decided to take her to the Lazareto Center where they could not receive her and she lay for two days under a tree. The leader assumes that medical personnel were afraid to make contact due to widespread suspicion of the coronavirus.

Then on Friday night Fernanda was taken to the Plan 3000 Pueblo Nuevo Health Center, where she received care for a few hours and was dispatched with a serum in her hand.

Completely vanished, they transported her in a taxi to the San Juan de Dios Hospital, where a relative appeared and tried to seek more specialized medical attention, but it was impossible because the health centers were busy caring for patients with the pandemic.

In these conditions, Saturday morning, she was transferred to the home of her brothers with whom she had lost contact three years ago due to the shame of being a sex worker.

In his house he spent all day Saturday without medical aid or eating food. While her friends went to find a paramedic to inject another serum, around 18:00 on the same day Saturday she died alone and found her lying in bed dead and with a chin on her face.

She said that this Sunday morning her friends mobilized to initiate procedures for the funeral, however they also collided with her reality due to the lack of resources to cover the costs of the funeral.

While he was alive, members of the LGTB collective opened a bank account to raise funds this weekend in the hope of financing life-saving medical care, but the news of the death came as a surprise to them and they resigned themselves to denouncing the mistreatment of which she was the victim when she was rejected in three health centers.

In the rush to meet the requirements for burial, one of the activists came to the good will of Santa Cruz deputy Tomás Monasterios who, despite the pain and mourning he was experiencing due to the death of his father in the middle of Sunday, in a sample of humanity agreed to donate the coffin for the burial that took place at 13:00 in the Santa Julia cemetery, located in the same area of ​​Plan 3000, where Fernanda Antelo's life ended in conditions of absolute poverty.

Activists will ask the Ombudsman for an investigation into the death of a trans person
Fernanda Antelo spent several hours prostrating waiting for attention. She did not receive it in three medical centers
Javier Méndez 6/6/2020 20:24
Fernanda Antelo died on Saturday.  Photo: Trans activists
Fernanda Antelo died on Saturday. Photo: Trans activists
Listen to this note here
There was time for the neighbors to film it, to call the police and try to capture the attention of the health center whose doors she was lying on last Tuesday, already in the final stretch of her life.

Fernanda Antelo was the name she used on the streets, a place where many trans people find a job option , who suffer discrimination and lack of decent access to education from their early youth.

She was evicted from the place she was renting and when she was left in the Lazareto center on Tuesday, she remained almost one day waiting for some attention, according to Muriel Arteaga, the trans activist who mobilized to help her .

Later, she was taken to her home, with some relatives, by Plan 3,000 and then to the Pueblo Nuevo center. There, they were told that she was putting staff and even those trying to help her at risk .

With an order for the San Juan de Dios hospital, they got into a taxi. In that center, they told her that they could not attend her. It was Friday and they had to return to the relatives' house. On Saturday, exhausted and weak, she died while her friends were looking for someone to attend to her.

This population is culturally and economically vulnerable , explains activist Álvaro Chuvé. His human rights are violated and he considers that he is the most affected of the entire lgbt + community.

Chuvé says she was discriminated against five times: For being a woman, trans, poor, for having an illness and for being a sex worker.

Activist Alex Bernabé says an investigation will be requested from the Ombudsman's Office . They hope that this institution manifests itself so that, despite being overwhelmed, the health system serves this population.

Source: erbol.com.bo

https://www.laizquierdadiario.com.bo/La-tragica-muerte-de-una-mujer-trans-que-desnuda-la-desigualdad-social-en-esta-crisis

http://eju.tv/2020/05/fallece-mujer-trans-en-condiciones-dramaticas-luego-de-peregrinar-por-tres-centros-de-salud/

https://eldeber.com.bo/182010_activistas-pediran-una-investigacion-a-la-defensoria-del-pueblo-por-muerte-de-persona-trans

https://www.facebook.com/CCDSGmunicipiolapaz/photos/a.483979448478855/1359191964290928/?type=3&theater

https://www.facebook.com/Igualbolivia/photos/a.806483409533200/1493462070835327/?type=3&theater

https://www.facebook.com/lid.bolivia/posts/3089901354381468


