Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-14T20:19:58+01:00

====== Fernanda Benvenutty (João Pessoa - 2 Jan 2020) ======
Created Sunday 14 June 2020



Fernanda Benvenutty
57
2 Jan 2020
João Pessoa
Brazil
cancer

Fernanda Benvenutty dies at 57 in João Pessoa
The nurse and LGBT + activist was battling liver cancer.
02/02/2020

Transsexual and activist Fernanda Benvenutty dies at 57. (Photo: Archive)

The transsexual and LGBT + activist Fernanda Benvenutty passed away on Sunday afternoon (02). She was battling liver cancer and died at home, in the Roger neighborhood, in João Pessoa, this Sunday (2) just before noon.

Fernanda Benvenutty was a native of Remígio, but she had been a political and professional performance developed in João Pessoa, having been a candidate for councilor and state deputy. In addition to being a militant, carnivalist, nurse and public health professional in the capital.

The activist would turn 58 next Sunday (9). The friend and “adopted son”, Dhell Félix said that yesterday during a conversation, Fernanda would have said that she wanted to die after the carnival. “She adopted me when I was thrown out. He was an incredible human being, ”he said. He expressed his regret on a social network: 

Jackson Macedo, PT's state president, party to which she was affiliated, even competing for a seat in the City Council, also expressed her regret on social media: “My bosom friend why did you leave so early? You were an inspiration to us. Warrior of equality of diversity and love. Let's have a carnival for you. Roger's States will get this title for you friend. Good bye ! Long live  @benvenuttyfernanda  ! ” 

The Paraíba Workers Party issued a note:

Note of regret

We do PT's Paraíba are in solidarity with the family and frinds the great Fernanda Benvenutti.

Fernanda left us today (02/02/2020) on the day of Iemanjá.

Fernanda was affiliated with our party and a major activist for Human Rights and the causes of the LGBTQ + struggle.

It was a national reference for us and for everyone who fights for equality.

Fernanda will be sorely missed!

Fernanda Bevenuti, present!

João Pessoa 02/02/2020.

Jackson Macêdo

President of PT PB
 

The National Association of Transvestites and Transsexuals also issued a note of condolence:

“It is with great sadness that ANTRA informs that on February 2, our dear Fernanda Benvenutty departed from that plan.

She who pioneered many struggles and battles lost her life as a result of cancer. We are torn apart for asking for such an important personality, but we are sure that she has fulfilled her role. And it left us a beautiful legacy of struggle and resistance.

I was informed in those minutes by the companions of João Pessoa Adreina Vilarim and Ana Beatriz, and as soon as I have more information we will keep you informed.

Keep the happy memories that were present where fernanda passed, and may she continue in peace. We are still here in the fight that she helped so much.

NATIONAL ASSOCIATION OF TRAVESTIES AND TRANSEXUALS - ANTRA

 

Farewell
Fernanda's body will be veiled from 18h, in the Gymnasium O Guarani in Baixo Roger, neighborhood where she lived. The place is the same that houses the rehearsals of the samba school Unidos do Roger, which she chaired and which will honor the activist at this year's carnival. 

The burial will take place on Monday (03), at 3 pm at Santa Catarina Cemetery, in the Bairro dos Estados.

 

Life and militancy
 
Born Eliziário Benvindo da Silva in Remígio, Microregion of Curimataú, in the early 60s, Fernanda Benvenutty realized in her childhood that she was transsexual. At 14, he ran away from home in a circus, in which he was an artist (clown, trapeze artist, show host and theater actress). Despite leaving home as a teenager, and having serious conflicts with his family, he did not lose his bond with his relatives. In November 2004 he co-founded the carnival association Império do Samba. Single, Benvenutty was the mother of a couple of adopted children.

Fernanda Benvenutt was a nurse and transsexual LGBT + human rights activist. She was the founding president of the Paraíba Transvestite Association (Astrapa) and vice president of the National Articulation of Transvestites and Transsexuals (Antra).

In parallel with his career as a nurse, Benvenutty had a remarkable history of activism for the rights of transsexuals and transgender people in João Pessoa. In April 2005, she, with a commission of activists from the Brazilian LGBT movement, spoke at the Chamber of Deputies in Brasília, with the Commission on Human and Minority Rights, to demand funds for programs to combat homophobia.

The First National LGBT Conference, held in Brasilia in June 2007, with the expectation of being a tedious correction ceremony by the government, shows itself to be a joyful, collective event full of hope, excitement and joy, as reported by the media. On the occasion, Fernanda puts a cap with the rainbow flag on the head of President Lula.

In 2009, the Brazilian federal government issued the decree that created the National LGBT Coordination, which aims to take care of the demand for public policies aimed at the gay community. At the time Fernanda was one of the three names quoted to assume the post of coordinator of the new political portfolio, as she has experience with public policies, with a focus on social management, as well as knowledge of the LGBT cause.

Political candidacy

For the Workers' Party (PT), Fernanda tried to be elected politically three times: in the Elections in Brazil in 2004 and 2008 and ran for city councilor and in 2010 for state deputy. In the first, he obtained an insignificant number of votes (less than fifteen hundred). In the 2010 elections, he obtained his most expressive vote, 2,782 votes for state deputy, however it was not enough to assume a seat in the state chamber.

https://revistaforum.com.br/colunistas/julianrodrigues/movimento-lgbti-chora-fernanda-benvenutty-era-uma-daquelas-imprescindiveis/amp/

https://g1.globo.com/pb/paraiba/noticia/2020/02/03/corpo-da-ativista-e-carnavalesca-fernanda-benvenutty-e-enterrado-em-cemiterio-de-joao-pessoa.ghtml

https://wscom.com.br/fernanda-benvenutty-morre-aos-57-anos-em-joao-pessoa/


