Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-07-03T07:11:50+01:00

====== Jace Nekoranik (Pennsylvania - 5 Sep 2020) ======
Created Saturday 03 July 2021
@violence


Jace Nekoranik
25 [born 26 May 1995]
5 Sep 2020
Pennsylvania
USA
overdose


I never thought I’d be adding another part to this series of blog posts. I don’t know how or where or what to do at this point as the legal system is just beyond fucked up. On May 6, we celebrated the memory of Jace’s 26th birthday, his first in Heaven. It’s pure irony that is also the day I was given more information into his death. I’m so furious and upset that I’m not going to recap (Read parts 1, 2, 3). I’m just starting with what I was told.

There must be another person who is either involved or was there the night Jace passed. I know that Kevin Tramel came to my house. He actually parked in the lot across the street and met Jace at the hair salon there. Before I go on, I’ll just give a little more detail about Jace’s day leading up to meeting Kevin real quick:

Jace was going to go to an out patient rehab for relapsing with crack that Tues. He knew he’d be there for detox about a week and after would be out patient. It was Friday, Sept. 4th when he was out with a friend and decided to smoke crack as one last hoorah (apparently getting high before getting help is common with addicts). When he got home he spent time with his sisters. He told my youngest that he was going to smoke a cigarette and when he came back in he would wake her up to make pancakes.

So now is where Kevin Tramel comes in. Jace apparently messaged him about getting crack. Somehow they were in touch and he came to our house/neighborhood to meet up with him. It seems that Kevin told Jace he had heroin but, Jace (I guess) didn’t want it or just thought he was getting crack. The way this goes down, it sounds to me that Jace realized what was about to happen. Kevin injected Jace with what is called a “Hot Shot” of fentanyl and heroin. Kevin also placed the capped syringe into Jace’s pocket then placed Jace on our front step. He stole Jace’s last $11 from his wallet and left it on our step with everything scattered. As sickening as finding that out, it proceeds to get 1000 times sicker….

At some point after Jace passed, the feds raided Kevin’s hotel or place he was staying. He spent less than a year in county jail because there was a deal made. Kevin’s record has been wiped and he’s now protected by my township’s disgusting police department because he’s a CI for them. Okay, so he’s a snitch but what’s even worse is how law enforcement cleared him of having any involvement with Jace’s overdose!!! I don’t care what he told them or who he helped the cops or feds get, there should never be deals made when there has been a life taken. Discrimination comes in many forms. Because Jace was an addict, the police department has no desire to find our family or Jace the justice that’s deserved. Also, Kevin is still selling crack.

I’m at a crossroads of what to do. A lot of people seem to think the only way the police department will be forced into anything is to go public…news media, local and national. That’s the last thing I want to do. I just don’t want that attention. Plus, it’s so hard for me to even remain calm talking about it much less how painful it is for me and my family. Others suggested talking to a lawyer. It feels like I can’t win either way because law enforcement is protected somehow which is really disgusting and unfair. It may be a losing battle but, it’s one I’m fighting until my last breath. I just wish I knew which direction to take.

I’m asking for this story to constantly and continuously be reposted and retold. I need to justice for my Jace. I want our police department to be held accountable for their part and whoever else besides Kevin Tramel to be held accountable and responsible for taking Jace’s life. If nothing brings awareness to this it will continue happening. Thank you to everyone who has read my posts and show support. If anyone has any advice or information please, comment or contact me by email.



Jace’s Legacy will be my personal journal to honor the memory of my oldest child who passed away on Sept. 5, 2020.
Jace had a gift and passion in writing. He started keeping a journal at a pretty young age since it was a class requirement. As he got older, it became a form of therapy/an outlet to release every emotion, thoughts, feelings, the roller coaster of his entire life and left no stone unturned.
I also want to share Jace’s journey with Addiction/Recovery and living as his true self being transgender. One main goal of his was to share his story by speaking with groups and hopefully inspire others. It may take quite some time but, I will make sure his goal is achieved and his story be told. Thankfully, I’ll have my Lauren to help me tell it.
To everyone who stumbled onto this page, I appreciate that you’ve taken the time to read my posts. For the brave one’s who decided to follow this page, thank you for sticking around…I know I can get crazy, off topic, get lost in my pain…the support means so much.

(from https://jaceslegacy.wordpress.com/about/)



Memorial site: https://jaceslegacy.wordpress.com/

https://jaceslegacy.wordpress.com/2021/05/08/grief-and-corruption-part-4/
