Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-11-09T07:51:24+00:00

====== Lea Rayshon Daye (Cleveland - 30 Aug 2020) ======
Created Monday 09 November 2020
@custodial



Lea Rayshon Daye
28
30 Aug 2020
Cleveland
Ohio
USA
41.501608,-81.6994757
died in custody



Outrage over death of Black trans woman in Cleveland jail
By Martha Grevatt posted on September 10, 2020

Anger over the tragic death of 28-year-old Lea Rayshon Daye in Cleveland’s Cuyahoga County Jail came out forcefully in a virtual press conference held Sept. 4. Daye’s was the second jail death here in less than two months and the 11th in two years. Found unresponsive in her cell Aug. 30, the Black trans woman died in a city deemed “an epicenter for America’s trans murder crisis” by an Aug. 17 op-ed piece in the Cleveland Scene.

Like Michael Wormick, who died in the same jail on July 8, Daye was houseless at the time of her arrest. Her death spotlighted the intersectionality of racism, transphobia, poverty and mass incarceration.

The news conference featured speakers on all these issues, including representatives of the Coalition to Stop the Inhumanity at the Cuyahoga County Jail, Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless (NEOCH), Equality Ohio, Trans Ohio and the LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland.

Rev. Reegie Bunch of the Jail Coalition condemned “the final indignity of misgendering” by jail authorities and then the news media. Ellie Turan, the Community Center’s Director of Development and author of the above mentioned op-ed, called Daye’s death “an extension of lynching.” Gwen Stembridge of Equality Ohio pointed out that half of all Black trans women spend time in prison, and Chris Knestrick of NEOCH added that 30% of transgender people experience homelessness and declared that “housing is a human right.”

Devinity Jones, founder and coordinator of the Community Center’s Trans Wellness Program, spoke movingly about her own experiences with the so-called “justice system.” When she appeared in court to pay a fine, a transphobic judge wrongfully sentenced her to 60 days in jail after making blatantly bigoted comments. In jail, she was subjected to a range of abuses.

Jones was celled with a cisgender male prisoner. Like numerous other prisoners she slept on a mat on the floor, was fed horrible food, had inadequate medical care, was denied basic hygiene and was abused by the vicious guards known as “the men in black.” A guard sexually assaulted her while she was taking a shower. Several years ago her friend Mahogany, also a Black trans woman, died in jail when authorities denied her anti-seizure medication.

The Jail Coalition was formed in December 2018 in response to eight deaths that had occurred over the previous six months, along with conditions that a U.S. federal marshals’ report called “the worst in the country.” The county jail drew national media attention earlier this year, when it released hundreds of prisoners to address overcrowding and reduce COVID spread. But recently the trend has been reversed, with numbers of prisoners climbing from a low of under a thousand to around 1,500, approaching capacity.

Activists here will continue to build unity around the main demand raised at the press conference: “No more deaths in the Cuyahoga County Jail.”




Cuyahoga County Jail's Most Recent Death Was a Black Trans Woman. Join Local Advocacy Organizations for a Virtual Press Conference Friday 9/4 to Remember Lea Rayshon Daye — Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless
FOR IMMEDIATE RELEASE

Cleveland, OH, September 2, 2020—The Coalition to Stop the Inhumanity at the Cuyahoga County Jail, Equality Ohio, The Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless, and The LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland decries the loss of another life at the Cuyahoga Jail: Lea Rayshon Daye, a black trans woman. At only 28 years old, she was found unresponsive by correctional officers early Sunday morning. Lea joins ten other people who have passed away in the Cuyahoga County Jail, which has been called “the worst in the country” by the US Marshals inspection report. 

“Transgender people are being murdered across the United States and the City of Cleveland has one of the highest rates based on our population,” said Maya Simekfrom Equality Ohio. “The system that continues to fail Black, brown and LGBTQ+ Ohioans is completely inept when interacting with those at the intersection of race and LGBTQ+ identity by not protecting them, especially in state custody.”

After society failed Lea, the final indignity was being misgendered in death. Lea spent the last 105 days of her life in the custody of a system that could not even afford her the basic dignity of releasing and reporting to the public her correct name and gender after her passing. Those that knew her said that she would have hated that.  

With reports about increased “red zoning,” a practice of locking people down for 27 or more hours in their cells and withholding basic hygiene items, it is clear that the issues within our jail have not been addressed. The jail population hovers around 1,000 people and even though the staff has increased to a robust size, we have seen two more inmate deaths in the last month alone and the death of a correctional officer who contracted COVID-19 while working at the jail. 

“Even the cleanest and most well-staffed jail in the world is still a predatory and abusive institution, and the vast majority of inmates incarcerated long-term in county jails are there due to an inability to afford bail, escape poverty, or access social services,” said  Chrissy Stonebraker-Martinez from the Cuyahoga County Jail Coalition. “A cottage industry of bail bonds has risen up to prey upon the desperation of these individuals and posts record profits every year. It is for this reason that cash bail must be abolished entirely.”

“The last two people who died in jail had experienced homelessness and these deaths at the county jail cannot become routine.” said Chris Knestrick from the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless. “Like the lives lost through police murder, mass shootings, and the covid pandemic, these are not isolated instances. They are symptoms of the deep systemic rot that places property and profit above human life and human dignity.”  

We call on our community, elected officials, and non-profit organizations to honor those whose lives were cut short by demanding justice and accountability. The victims of the Cuyahoga County Jail should not be forgotten and black trans lives should not be erased. Join us in fighting for a fairer, freer, and more equitable justice system in Cuyahoga County. 

“There is a direct correlation between the uprisings regarding racial equity and the increased public awareness about the murdering of trans people,” said Ellie Turan, the Director of Development at the LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland. “The time we are living in is creating a spark that's causing people to see the murders of our trans neighbors as a major problem.”

We will honor their lives prior to the moment they were ended at the Cuyahoga County Jail. We ask our community to join us in saying their names: Theodore Carter. Allan Martin. Gomez Roman. Randall Kain. Larry Johnson. Brenden Kiekisz. Nicholas Colbert. Joseph Arquillo. Esteban Parra. Gregory Fox. Michael Wormick. Lea Daye. 

The community is invited to is invited to join the Cuyahoga County Jail Coalition, The LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland, Equality Ohio, and the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless for a virtual press conference on Friday, September 4th, 2020 at 11am. To watch the press conference follow us on social media at @LGBTCLEVELAND - @JailCoalition - @equalityohio - @ClevelandHomeless


Local Advocacy Groups Criticize County's Handling Of Trans Inmate's Death
The Cuyahoga County Jail seen from the street below.
The Cuyahoga County Jail attempted to reduce its population during the pandemic and bring on additional staff to improve conditions. [Nick Castele / ideastream]
A collection of Northeast Ohio transgender and LGBT advocacy groups on Friday discussed the death of Lea Rayshon Daye, a Black transgender woman, in the Cuyahoga County Jail.

Daye was found unresponsive by corrections officers at the jail Sunday morning, according to a press release from the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless. She had been in custody for 105 days, according to the release.

Advocates for trans rights argued Daye’s death is an example of inhumane and inequitable conditions in the jail during the press conference. The conference was a collaborative effort with the LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland, Equality Ohio, the Coalition to Stop the Inhumanity at the Cuyahoga County Jail, the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless and additional nonprofit advocacy groups.

Discrimination against trans individuals, particularly Black trans women, is prevalent in local courts and law enforcement, said Devinity Jones, Trans Wellness Program Coordinator with the LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland.

“We cannot sit here and say, ‘This is my community, I’m protecting my community, I’m doing the best for my community,’ in these positions of power, and not include transgender people that are in this community,” Jones said.

Transgender inmates are frequently mistreated, misgendered and denied necessary health care, Jones said. Jones has spent time in the Cuyahoga County Jail herself and she said the conditions are in desperate need of improvement.

“They can punch you, hit you, mace you, spit on you, step on you, throw you up against the wall and don’t care what your gender is, what your name is… your background,” Jones said. “They can just do whatever they want, and this definitely has to stop.”

Jail conditions make it difficult for inmates to focus on preparing their case for court, Jones said, as well as following through on any legal steps to improve their situation.

Cuyahoga County officials and local media further mistreated Daye following her death, said Rev. Reegie Bunch with the Cuyahoga County Jail Coalition, by including an incorrect name and other information on official documents.

“They would not, they could not even afford her the basic dignity of releasing and reporting to the public her correct name and gender after her passing,” Bunch said.

It is clear that conditions at the jail have not improved despite repeated calls for change, Bunch said.

“The victims of the Cuyahoga County Jail should not be forgotten, and Black trans lives should not be erased,” Bunch said.

The groups are calling for an impartial, third-party investigation into Daye’s death, as well as systemic change to improve the conditions in the jail.

“We also need to begin thinking and speaking of mass incarceration as an extension of enslavement into the modern day,” said Ellie Turan, Director of Development at the LGBT Community Center of Greater Cleveland.

Housing trans women in all-male prison facilities contributes to abuse and further mistreatment, Turan said, as well as mental health difficulties already prevalent in the population.

“It is a travesty. It’s a disgrace,” Turan said. “And it shows that those in a position of power to change it do not care about sexual assault.”

Trans and LGBTQ individuals face disproportionate challenges with finding safe and secure housing, said Chris Knestrick with the Northeast Ohio Coalition for the Homeless.

“The road to homelessness and the experience itself is filled with criminalization and trauma,” Knestrick said.

Unequal access to housing leads to additional burdens and issues, he said, including incarceration, injury and death.

“Like the lives lost through police murder, mass shootings, and the COVID pandemic, these are not isolated instances,” Knestrick said. “They are symptoms of the deep systemic rot that places property and profit above human life and human dignity.”  

Cuyahoga County spokesperson Mary Louise Madigan confirmed an inmate died in the jail this past weekend and said an investigation is ongoing, but did not provide additional details.




https://www.neoch.org/cleveland-homeless-blog/2020/9/3/for-immediate-release-cuyahoga-county-jails-most-recent-death-was-a-black-trans-woman-join-local-advocacy-organizations-for-a-virtual-press-conference-friday-94-to-remember-lea-rayshon-daye

https://www.workers.org/2020/09/51216/

https://www.newsbreak.com/ohio/cleveland/news/2053686996532/multiple-organizations-speak-out-after-death-of-transgender-inmate-at-cuyahoga-county-jail

https://www.clevescene.com/scene-and-heard/archives/2020/09/03/death-at-cuyahoga-county-jail-second-in-two-months-was-trans-woman-lea-daye

https://www.msn.com/en-us/news/world/multiple-organizations-speak-out-after-death-of-transgender-inmate-at-cuyahoga-county-jail/ar-BB18G3u0

https://www.ideastream.org/news/local-advocacy-groups-criticize-countys-handling-of-trans-inmates-death

https://www.wkyc.com/article/news/local/cleveland/cuyahoga-county-jail-inmate-death-reaction/95-f4b6e170-2b47-4a73-b2df-bff96cfdf1e4

https://www.cleveland19.com/2020/09/07/transgender-inmate-misgendered-by-cuyahoga-county-jail-after-death/

https://twitter.com/CatholicGuilt69/status/1301858336434946048

