Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.6
Creation-Date: 2021-04-21T16:20:55+01:00

====== New Witnesses In Lempke Death Mystery Called (The Evening World, NY, NY, 10 Dec 1919) ======
Created Wednesday 21 April 2021

NEW WITNESSES IN LEMPKE DEATH MYSTERY CALLED
Miss Manly's Information Is Vague, but Brings Other Summonses

Several now witnesses will be called to-day by Assistant District Attorney Morrlis, who is investigating the mysterious death of young John W. Lampke, who was found dead on his motorboat at College Point Oct. 19. The witnesses are to be questioned in connection with fragments of information given Mr. Morris yesterday by Miss Rose Manly. She is the so-called missing witness who was supposed to have valuable information, but her examination did not go far toward clearing the mystery.

Miss Manly, a, good looking woman of perhaps twenty-nine, said she had been introduced to the youth by his father—whom she had known some time, but added she had not seen John for more than a month before his body, attired In women's garments, was found on his boat.

District Attorney O'Leary did not appear to think a great deal of what had been gleaned from the witness. Just before her arrival in his office he told reporters the elder Lempke had suggested that she be questioned and might give some information that might aid in the unravelling of the mystery.

"This woman," he added."I believe, can tell us more about the habits of Lemko than any other person outside of the immediate family. They have not told us very much and we have been very anxious to find Miss Manly." A

After the boy's parents Insisted on a further Investigation info his death—declaring he had been murdered and did not commit suicide—District Attorney O'Leary decided to go into tho matter and sent for Miss Manly. Detectives were told at the Hotel Netherland, where she lives, on one occasion that she had gone to Canada and later that she was in Europe. It was learned yesterday that she had never left the hotel.
