Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2026-05-30T09:04:45+01:00

====== Waldirene Nogueira (Ubatuba - 19 May 2026) ======
Created Saturday 30 May 2026
@medical @notable


Waldirene Nogueira
80
https://noticiasdaspraias.com/2026/05/20/morre-em-ubatuba-aos-80-anos-waldirene-nogueira-a-primeira-mulher-trans-a-passar-por-uma-cirurgia-de-redesignacao-sexual-no-brasil/
19 May 2026
Ubatuba
São Paulo
Brazil
natural causes


Waldirene Nogueira, the first transgender woman to undergo sex reassignment surgery in Brazil, dies in Ubatuba at the age of 80.
May 20, 2026admin

Waldirene Nogueira, who was the first trans woman to undergo sex reassignment surgery in Brazil in December 1971, when she was 26 years old, died in Ubatuba on Tuesday (May 19) at the age of 80.

Waldirene Nogueira, 80 years old, died in Ubatuba, on the north coast of São Paulo. She had been facing health problems and lived under the care of her family. According to the family, Waldirene died as a result of acute respiratory failure. The wake will take place this Wednesday (20), in Lins, the city where the burial will also be held, at 5 pm.

Born in 1945, she was registered as Waldir Nogueira and began medical treatment in the late 1960s at the Hospital das Clínicas of USP (University of São Paulo). After medical and psychological evaluations, she underwent sex reassignment surgery in December 1971 at the Oswaldo Cruz Hospital, in a procedure conducted by plastic surgeon Roberto Farina.

The operation became a historical landmark in the country, but it also triggered a long legal and social battle. Roberto Farina was even convicted of aggravated bodily harm as a result of the procedure, at a time when transsexuality was still treated in a criminalized and pathologized way.

Throughout her life, Waldirene also faced difficulties in rectifying her civil documents. Official recognition of her name only occurred in 2010, when she was 65 years old. A trained accountant, she worked as a manicurist and lived a discreet life. Her story has come to be recognized as a pioneering symbol in the fight for the rights and dignity of the trans population in Brazil.

In March 2018, Waldirene gave an interview to BBC News Brazil in São Paulo where she recounted her experience. The surgery was performed at the Oswaldo Cruz Hospital in São Paulo by Roberto Farina, at the time one of the most important plastic surgeons in the country. Before the surgery, Waldirene was monitored for two years by an interdisciplinary team at the Hospital das Clínicas, which identified her as transgender, a condition in which gender differs from physical sex.

In other words, it's like being a woman, having been born in a male body – or vice versa. Surgery is, therefore, a way to adapt the body to the true gender – when desired by the individual.

“My life before the operation was an unbearable torment because I had to carry genitalia that never belonged to me. After the operation, I was free forever – thanks to God and Dr. Roberto Farina – from the execrable organs that tormented my life, and I felt so relieved that it seemed as if I had grown new wings for life,” Waldirene wrote at the time.

Everything went well. Until, in 1976, the São Paulo Public Prosecutor's Office discovered the medical intervention and charged Farina with grievous bodily harm, punishable by two to eight years in prison. Waldirene was considered a victim, against her will. The male organs removed in the operation were considered a "physical asset" protected by the State, "inalienable and irrevocable." "Saying that the victim gave consent is irrelevant," stated a police report on the case.

“There is not, nor can there be, any change of sex with these operations. What is achieved is the creation of stylized eunuchs, for the better gratification of their deplorable sexual perversions and also of the depraved individuals who find satisfaction in them. Such individuals, therefore, are not transformed into women, but into true monsters,” denounced prosecutor Luiz de Mello Kujawski in a request to initiate a police investigation.

“I had no law on my side, everything was against me. I was considered a whore. I still can't shake off those things to this day,” said Waldirene, at the time of the interview, a 71-year-old woman who still works as a manicurist in the interior of São Paulo.

“I was a pioneer. I held the flag even for those who don’t know me.” She didn’t want to be photographed today for fear of the return of the “nightmare” she lived through in the past. To protect her, BBC Brasil omitted the name of the city where she lives. Roberto Farina passed away in 2001, at the age of 86.

Waldirene was born in 1945 in the interior of São Paulo. Her father, a truck driver, and her mother, a homemaker, had nine children: "four boys, four girls, and me," she says. The boys slept in one room, the girls in another. But for Wal (her nickname), her father built a separate bedroom where the house's pantry used to be. That's where she still sleeps today – now the only resident of the house.

“I’ve always been Waldirene,” she says. In childhood, she preferred girls’ games. While her brothers pretended to be cowboys, she was the damsel in distress. “I wanted to be like my sisters. Why was I born the way I was?” In adolescence, her femininity became more pronounced. She had no facial hair, her voice didn’t deepen, and her waist was slightly defined. Furthermore, she began to be interested in men.

The idea for the surgery came when she learned the story of Coccinelle, a French cabaret dancer who was born male and underwent surgery. Her transformation began when a doctor from the countryside advised her to seek out endocrinologist Dorina Epps at the Hospital das Clínicas in São Paulo in 1969. “As soon as she saw me, she wanted to help me. She was a very good friend, very attentive, I owe her a lot,” recalls Waldirene.

Dorina Epps, now 94 years old and unable to speak due to health problems, was a pioneer in gender studies in Brazil. At the clinics, under her direction, Waldirene underwent extensive examinations. She also began attending weekly therapy sessions. Soon, the report came: "This patient demonstrates a personality with clearly feminine characteristics, structured since childhood."

Initially, they considered taking Waldirene to the United States for the surgery – at that time, the procedure was only available abroad. It was then that Roberto Farina, a professor at the Paulista School of Medicine, became interested in performing the surgery. The doctor was already a pioneer in urogenital surgeries, but had never performed sex reassignment surgery.

"Given the case, I acquired specialized literature and performed several plastic surgeries on cadavers in order to gain the necessary knowledge to perform the operation on Waldir," the doctor said in court testimony. The surgery consists of removing the male sexual organs and constructing a vagina.

Waldirene wasn't afraid of being a pioneer. "I wasn't afraid of the operation, I just wanted to solve my problem," she says.

The surgery, performed at no cost to the patient, took place about twenty years after the first known successful case in the world, that of American Christine Jorgensen, operated on in Denmark in 1952. Even earlier, in the 1930s, Lili Elba underwent the first attempt at transgender surgery, but died during one of the operations – her story inspired the film The Danish Girl (2015).

Now recovered, Waldirene returned to her hometown a new woman, with grown-out blonde hair, a feminine figure, and a newfound joy. One of the reasons for her return was a crush on a university student who looked exactly like Robert Redford's character in the film Indecent Proposal (1993), she recalls. The romance was kept secret. "No one could know, it would be a scandal for him."

But when the young man finished college, the story ended. Waldirene was devastated. It would only be the beginning of a story of misfortunes.

Waldirene's life changed completely after the lawsuit against Farina. Humiliated in court, in the press, and in the city, the extroverted girl began to fear leaving her house. Even today, forty years later, when she is in a public place, she has the feeling that she is being watched and that people are talking about her. As a result, she spends most of her time alone. The only exception is Carnival, "an opportunity to come out of her shell."

Waldirene continues to work as a manicurist to supplement her minimum wage pension. Her clientele is sporadic – on the day of BBC Brasil's visit, she only served one person. She charges 30 reais for a manicure and pedicure. The salon is located in the anteroom of her house. The furniture, objects, and some of the appliances seem to have sprung from the 1980s, untouched since Wal's parents died.

“I have a good little life. But it’s just a little life. I can’t have big dreams,” she says. “To say that life is beautiful? I can’t.” Health problems are piling up, and it’s difficult to find doctors who understand – and accept – her past surgeries. A urologist she consulted said he “didn’t believe” in her vagina. An ophthalmologist almost fell out of his chair when she told him she was born Waldir.

The girl from the countryside never married nor had a lasting relationship. The city men would tell her, “If I can have a normal woman, why would I settle for an imitation?” She complains that they only wanted sex, never friendship, companionship, or romance. “Today I’m lonely because I don’t want anyone having fun at my expense.” Even today she is a beautiful woman, blonde, curvy, almost without wrinkles – although she finds it hard to believe.

Between loneliness and bitterness, Waldirene pauses her conversation with BBC Brasil because of a memory. In her youth, she sang in serenades, but stopped because her father thought they were making fun of her. Now, she remembers Nora Ney's interpretation of a samba by Nelson Cavaquinho and feels the urge to sing again. She opens her arms and lets her voice soar:

"I know that tomorrow, when I die, my friends will say that I had a good heart / Some will even cry and want to honor me by making a golden guitar / But after time passes, I know that no one will remember that I'm gone / That's why I think like this: if someone wants to do something for me, let them do it now / Give me flowers while I'm alive, affection, a helping hand, to ease my sorrows / After I become a memory, I don't need vanity, I want prayers and nothing more."


https://noticiasdaspraias.com/2026/05/20/morre-em-ubatuba-aos-80-anos-waldirene-nogueira-a-primeira-mulher-trans-a-passar-por-uma-cirurgia-de-redesignacao-sexual-no-brasil/

https://francesnews.com.br/post/2026/05/26/24884-primeira-trans-brasileira-a-fazer-cirurgia-de-resignacao-sexual-morre-aos-80-anos

https://www.bbc.com/portuguese/articles/cvgzn5xglgjo

https://www.cnnbrasil.com.br/nacional/sudeste/sp/primeira-mulher-trans-a-fazer-redesignacao-sexual-no-pais-morre-aos-80-anos/

https://g1.globo.com/sp/bauru-marilia/noticia/2026/05/20/primeira-mulher-trans-a-passar-por-cirurgia-de-redesignacao-sexual-no-brasil-e-sepultada-no-interior-de-sp.ghtml

https://www.estadao.com.br/sao-paulo/primeira-mulher-trans-passar-redesignacao-sexual-brasil-waldirene-nogueira-morre-80-anos-npr/

https://www1.folha.uol.com.br/cotidiano/2026/05/waldirene-a-1a-mulher-trans-a-passar-por-cirurgia-de-mudanca-de-sexo-no-brasil-morta-aos-80-anos.shtml

https://noticias.uol.com.br/cotidiano/ultimas-noticias/2026/05/19/morre-waldirene-trans-brasil.amp.htm

https://noticias.uol.com.br/cotidiano/ultimas-noticias/2026/05/19/morre-waldirene-trans-brasil.ghtm

https://www.metropoles.com/sao-paulo/morre-1-mulher-trans-cirurgia

https://www.areavip.com.br/noticias/brasil/morre-primeira-mulher-trans-a-passar-por-cirurgia-de-redesignacao-sexual-no-brasil/

https://g1.globo.com/sp/bauru-marilia/noticia/2026/05/19/morre-waldirene-nogueira-primeira-mulher-trans-a-passar-por-cirurgia-de-redesignacao-sexual-no-brasil.ghtml

https://g1.globo.com/google/amp/sp/sorocaba-jundiai/video/morre-waldirene-nogueira-primeira-trans-a-passar-por-redesignacao-sexual-no-brasil-14627230.ghtml

https://g1.globo.com/google/amp/sp/sorocaba-jundiai/video/g1-em-1-minuto-morre-pioneira-trans-do-brasil-e-noivo-morre-acidente-em-itapetininga-14630756.ghtml

