Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-02T18:40:35+00:00

====== Laura Weinstein (Bogota - 2 Jan 2021) ======
Created Saturday 02 January 2021
@medical



Laura Weinstein
58
2021_01_02_Laura-Weinstein.jpg
https://www.eltiempo.com/vida/murio-laura-weinstein-activista-y-mujer-trans-colombiana-558344
2 Jan 2021
Bogotá
Colombia
breathing difficulties (COVID-19 test came back negative)


Prominent transgender activist in Colombia dies

Laura Weinstein (Photo via Weinstein’s Facebook page)
BOGOTA, Colombia – A prominent transgender activist in Colombia died on Saturday. Laura Weinstein, director of Fundación Grupo de Acción y Apoyo a Personas Trans (GAAT), a trans rights group based in the Colombian capital of Bogotá, passed away four days after she was hospitalized with difficulty breathing.

“I have been hospitalized since yesterday because of breathing difficulties,” tweeted Weinstein on Dec. 31. “They gave me a COVID test and we are waiting for the results, but not being able to breath is something that I never wish upon anyone.”

Gente les garantizo que he estado muy juiciosa y muchos saben que es así.
Desde el día de ayer me encuentro hospitalizada por dificultades respiratorias, me hicieron la prueba #Covid y esperamos el resultado. Pero esto de no poder respirar es algo que nunca le desearía a nadie.

— Laura Weinstein N. (@LAURAWEINS) December 31, 2020

Wilson Castañeda Castro, director of Caribe Afirmativo, an LGBTQ advocacy group that works in areas along Colombia’s Caribbean coast, on Saturday told the Washington Blade that Weinstein’s coronavirus test came back negative.

Weinstein had previously fought cancer. Castañeda told the Blade her health had deteriorated in recent months.

“We mourn the death of GAAT Director Laura Weinstein,” tweeted Caribe Afirmativo on Saturday. “The joint work and collaborative effort for all these years forged a great friendship between us and her! We are devastated.”

Castañeda told the Blade that GAAT and Caribe Afirmativo in November requested Colombia’s National Electoral Council develop protocols to ensure trans Colombians can vote, regardless of their gender identity.

Weinstein over the last year worked with the Global Fund to Fight AIDS, Tuberculosis and Malaria to reduce HIV rates among Venezuelans who have migrated to Colombia. Castañeda said she worked with trans women and in particular sex workers.

Castañeda noted Weinstein a few months ago launched a campaign in Bogotá to support trans women and Venezuelan migrants. Weinstein was also among the Colombian LGBTQ activists who backed the 2016 peace deal between the government and the Revolutionary Armed Forces of Colombia that ended the country’s decades-long civil war.

“We will always remember her as a great ally, friend and tireless worker for human rights,” tweeted Colombia Diversa, another Colombian LGBTQ advocacy group.

Tatiana Piñeros, a trans woman who ran for the Colombian Senate in 2018, described Weinstein’s death to the Blade as a “big loss.” Mauricio Toro, who is the first openly gay man elected to the Colombian House of Representatives, is among those who also mourned Weinstein’s passing.

“Her fight and her inspiration will endure forever,” he tweeted.





Laura Weinstein, activist and Colombian trans woman died
By: William Moreno Hernandez
January 02, 2021, 05:14 pm
This Saturday, the GAAT Foundation (Trans Action and Support Group) reported on its social networks that the activist and human rights defender Laura Weinstein, its director, died. "Thank you for every moment that you allowed us to build collectively, for your teachings and for all your unconditional support," they wrote.

Weinstein was one of the people who worked the most for the recognition of trans identities in Colombia. He did it mainly from that organization, to which he arrived in 2009 and from which he led legislative and institutional initiatives in favor of the rights of trans people, such as trans voting, LGBTI public policy, support for trans children, the rejection of transfemicides , among others.

(Also read: The violence suffered by LGBT minors in the armed conflict )

A few days ago, on her Twitter account, she shared that she was hospitalized. "Since yesterday (Wednesday, December 30) I have been hospitalized for respiratory difficulties, they did the #Covid test and we wait for the result. But this not being able to breathe is something that I would never wish on anyone, " he wrote . 

Today, her death takes by surprise a country in which, according to the count of the Trans Community Network, at least 31 trans women were murdered in 2020 and where, as she insisted, there is still a long way to go to achieve full equality and dignity of this population.

Laura Weinstein, a historian with studies in Social Work, narrated dozens of times, and in all kinds of settings, the different types of violence that are exerted on the trans population - especially trans women - and the few security guarantees they have: discrimination in health centers, stones in the streets, social lynching and an extensive etc.

(We recommend: Juliana Giraldo's family drama after three months of her death )

In 2017, in an interview with Sentiido (https://sentiido.com/la-silenciosa-lucha-de-laura-weinstein/ & https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=bQDq4ePcDs8), a web portal dedicated to talking about sexual and gender diversity, she said that her first activity as director of GAAT consisted of take a group of trans women to the Banco de la República Art Museum in Bogotá to see 'Habeas corpus: may you have [a] body [to exhibit]', an exhibition about the human body.

Laura, who worked closely with sex workers, wanted her peers, as she called them, to reflect on this and get out of their routines.

They enthusiastically agreed. For many, it was the first visit to a museum. But during the entrance, the metal detectors began to beep. They all looked at each other. Nobody understood what was happening. They were asked to open their bags and the museum's security team found a variety of knives and pocket knives. That day - Laura told that web portal - she dimensioned what she was facing.

“They don't go out without it (the weapons) to defend their lives. That set us off alarms. We realized the need to start working on reporting tools with which they understood that we could not continue like this, because it simply led to them killing us ”.

(You may be interested: LGBT groups that resisted the armed conflict )

Laura began working in defense of the rights of the trans population long before embarking on her own transition. He did digital activism, on social networks, individually and spontaneously. Thus, one day she decided to create 'Travestis Bogotá', a group on Yahoo in which discussions about diverse gender identities were raised.

Soon, her struggle moved to the streets, that scene where so many times, from a very young age, she witnessed how trans people were victims of discrimination. She welcomed sex workers beaten by police officers, accompanied trans women to health centers, and on more than one occasion faced the authorities to demand what she considered fair .

Laura fought alone, but over time organizations contacted her and she became involved in collective processes. Thus, and with her transition underway, she was a spokesperson for the LGBT Board of Bogotá, created the Fundación Transrevolucionando Genres and, shortly after, arrived at GAAT, where she assumed executive management in 2010.

(Also: Survivor pension failure LGBT could impact more people )

His backlash in the fight for trans rights is extensive: he contributed to making trans identities visible; was one of the voices that promoted the issuance of decree 1227, which allows the change of sex in the identity document, and set the debate on the military passbook for trans men.

His work was incessant. One of his last great contributions was a victory Transcendental in relation to public policy for the LGBT population in Colombia , which was issued by order of the Constitutional Court in 2018, during the government of Juan Manuel Santos, but which has not yet been implemented by the administration of Iván Duque.

(You may be interested in: The miracle of the LGBT young man who spent 23 days in a coma due to a beating )

This policy is key so that people with diverse sexual orientations, identities and / or gender expressions obtain better living conditions, as well as to prevent cases of violence. Laura was aware of this importance and, therefore, through the GAAT, she  filed a tutela action in June 2020 against the Ministry of the Interior so that this implementation could be addressed. 

A Bogotá judge ruled in his favor and ordered that portfolio to initiate administrative procedures to issue the LGBTI National Public Policy Action Plan, as well as to create a technical group to be in charge of compliance with the obligations. In addition, I have ordered him to prepare a work program and schedule with clear dates.

(You may be interested: How many Colombians are LGBT? Dane made the first statistical measurement )

Last September, also on behalf of the GAAT Foundation, Laura Weinstein presented, together with the Caribbean Affirmative organization and the Electoral Observation Mission (MOE), a proposal before the National Electoral Council (CNE) for the construction of a protocol that promotes measures that guarantee the right to vote for transgender people under equal conditions and free from discrimination.

In November, the initiative was accepted in its entirety, and thus Colombia became the second country in Latin America to approve a protocol of this type.

Laura Weinstein overcame discrimination - the rejection of her seven siblings, the negligence of dozens of psychologists and the non-recognition of her identity in all kinds of public settings - and took the voice of the movement from a population that has historically been marginalized. He bet on collective work, to build networks from empathy and always proudly carried the blue, white and pink flag, which represents trans identities.

Activists, LGBTI organizations, politicians and hundreds of citizens today mourn his death, but agree thathis work was valuable for the fight for the rights of the trans population in Colombia .

(We recommend: The violence suffered by LGBTI Venezuelan migrants in Colombia )

A life devoted to activism
EL TIEMPO reproduces below a fragment of 'Rights in a trans code', an interview that William Moreno Hernández did with Laura Weinstein for the anthology 'Voces de Resistencia. Interviews with social activists and leaders', published in 2019 as a thesis.

I recently read an interview where you said that before activist, you are 'parcera' trans people, what  does that mean?

The GAAT is going to celebrate eleven years working for the vindication of the rights of trans people. I have been linked to more or less ten, but until recently I came to realize that what I did was recognized as activism. I started on this because I realized that there were many things that were unfair in the lives of us trans people. So, beyond the figure of the activist, I like to say that I am the partner because I like to sit down and ask them about their lives, their problems, their families and, above all, their dreams.

The most recent project of the GAAT is to work with families of trans boys and girls, why?

It was a more personal commitment, a claim to say that trans boys and girls do exist and that all trans people deserve families that love them. Childhood was not easy for me. It was a time full of difficulties, of great loneliness. No boy or girl should go through the same thing that I experienced, so I believed that there was a historical debt to that 'boy' who was discriminated against. That 'child' who is not only my life experience but surely that of many other people. We need, then, to involve families because when a trans person manages to have their family accompany them in this process, to recognize their transit and provide them with support, their life is different; he has 90 percent of his life insured because he will not fall into environments of violence and criminalization.

What that job is with families?

We have several institutional meeting and training programs. One of them is the Support Group, in which we accompany the transits and the identity process of trans women and men, but also the people around them, such as family members, friends and even couples. We usually meet once a week. We have a group for adults and another for trans boys and girls and their parents. We provide accompaniment, we build solidarity networks and we share experiences that go through us on a daily basis.

What other lines of work is the foundation?

We have the 'Trans Patrol', which is in charge of dealing with cases of human rights violations. So, we follow up on cases of murders, forced displacement, beatings, expulsions from schools and jobs and all kinds of barriers when accessing the health system or changing documentation. The problem is that cases always come to the foundation, but there are no resources to deal with them.

Now we are also interested in training and making trans people aware of their rights and empowering them, so we have organized workshops to resolve doubts or address claims related to their rights and there we show them options to improve their quality of life. That project is called 'Five rights in a trans key' and it was born in 2016.

And why 'five rights'?

For the five rights that we consider most violated in the trans community: mobility, education, work, housing and health.

Trans people, on the other hand, live in a game that we play every day of our lives because we have to go everywhere explaining who we are, and above all reaffirm it

FACEBOOK
TWITTER
The figures of violence against the LGBT population in general are alarming, but trans people are especially vulnerable. Why?

Here we should first say that there is an initial problem and that is that it is customary to put all LGBT people in the same bag, ignoring that each population group has specific needs. In the case of trans people, everything starts from a lack of recognition. If you are a homosexual or bisexual person, you don't even have to say so. Trans people, on the other hand, live in a game that we play every day of our lives because we have to go everywhere explaining who we are, and above all reaffirm it. This is very violent and can lead to discrimination.

It is also true that many trans people are immersed in violent and highly criminalized environments such as prostitution, so they are more vulnerable to attacks because of who they are, because of their gender identity.

And why do they reach those highly criminalized environments?

The vast majority of trans people do not have a formal job. That, added to the lack of education –which also occurs due to discrimination–, leads many, especially women, to end up in work environments that are absolutely precarious and highly criminalized. It is not that they want to be in those places but that it is what there is, and we have to survive with that. In the GAAT we have calculated that close to 70 percent of trans women and 50 percent of trans men find their main professional activity in sexual service.

The most recent report from Colombia Diversa on these cases indicates that crimes against trans people tend to be “justified” by the attackers, even by the authorities themselves, because it is believed that the victims were engaged in robbery or were linked to networks. microtrafficking.

Of course, there is a violation in the process of the proceedings because, from the outset, it is assumed that trans people are criminals. This creates a stereotype that limits access to justice in cases of human rights violations. But this stigmatization is also structural. People have incorrect imaginations about the reality of trans people. They see us as dangerous, scandalous, conflictive people, as people to be careful with. Therefore, each space that we manage to conquer is an achievement. But it is not easy. Many people continue to see us as if we were a myth, denying that we are a reality, that we exist.

There is a legal framework regarding access to work. The Constitutional Court, for example, ruled in 2007 on discrimination against transgender people in this area. What happens in that case?

Let's analyze how many trans people are in Colombia in decision-making positions in companies or entities. None. Something particular happens in employment discrimination and that is that it is not only about offering work to trans people but, when we have access, they force us to work more because we are trans people. In some way, they force us to show that we are "good workers" despite what we are. It happened to me when I worked in the institution. At some point they told me that I was “affirmative action”, but I realized that my colleagues earned more than I did, even when I work the same or more than many of them. Those spaces are still violent. We are not equal.

Another area in which discrimination towards women is very common.
trans people is health, what  happens there?

The health system still does not understand the identity constructions of trans people, so it is sometimes very complex. Many times it is us and we who have to tell the doctor what could be done because they do not have the slightest idea. But this problem goes much further. Access to health is very difficult for trans people because sometimes there is not even a way to get a health affiliation.

Many times trans people do not have a document that matches their identity. And they do not have that document for different reasons, because they decided not to remove it or because, by losing it, they decided not to deal with the process again, anyway. The problem is that to access the health system you need that document –the cédula–, which for anyone can be the most common thing in the world but for trans people it is a whole process.

And the story does not end there. To access health, we have to be affiliated, but we also have to meet the guard at the door, announce ourselves with the receptionist and face inappropriate treatment by the doctor in the office. In all these spaces, in general, our identity is not recognized, so they treat you as a man if you are a trans woman and vice versa. It is a system that is continually violent.

Do these 'obstacles' in access to health occur only when the transition is to be advanced or are they also manifested in common procedures?

They happen all the time. Right now, for example, I have cancer - which is another claim for which I am working today - and I have felt discriminated against several times for being a trans woman. They ask me what am I, why and, in fact, when I started to get sick, the first thing the doctor told me, without having examined me, is that it was surely a venereal disease. Discrimination and violence are constant. This health system is wicked.

People have incorrect imaginations about the reality of trans people. They see us as dangerous, conflictive people. Therefore, each space that we manage to conquer is an achievement

FACEBOOK
TWITTER
In reports of violence against the LGBT population, it is usually noted about the number of cases that are committed by members of the public force. Is the police a discriminator actor?

There's something paradoxical is that, despite the new Police Code includes penalties for discrimination against LGBT people, are the same members of the police who violate our rights. In the case of trans people, the attacks occur in sex work areas, which, as I told you, are criminalized places.

In these cases, what you have to do is begin to humanize the members of the Police because raising awareness no longer works. Police abuse is a problem that trans people face on a daily basis, but we stay in the chat, in the workshop. No, we have to go further and say: 'Come on, Mr. Police, and we sit down to talk about our realities and what we have to endure on a daily basis.' That's where the transformation begins.

In the figures of discrimination against trans people, it is striking that women are more vulnerable. Why?

Yes, the truth is that the realities of trans men and trans women are completely different. Trans women are more visible and, apart from that, the stereotypes that are imposed on us regarding femininity are stronger. A trans boy has a transition that many times is not even noticeable, while women, whether due to their build or other issues, are more noticeable, and that is where discrimination begins. Furthermore, one could speak of a 'double discrimination': one for being a woman and the other for being a trans woman.

Regarding this 'double discrimination', a few months ago, for the first time in history, the homicide of a trans woman was classified as femicide. How did you receive that decision?

That ruling is historic and very important because, for the first time, we are recognized as women. However, we do not believe that it is prudent to regularize as femicide if it is not going to stay there, as femicide. In other words, our concern is that the murders of trans women add to the statistics of feminicide without the clarity that they were committed against a trans woman. In our case, the murders are not only due to the fact of being a woman but also due to our identity constructions. In this field, we do believe that the judicial system lacks a lot.

And trans women are no guarantees in the judicial system?

No, usually when you 're going to ask you if you report telling the truth. Not to mention that all cases remain in impunity. I, for example, received threats because of my work at GAAT. When I approached to report, they asked me if I was sure that it was not one of my boyfriends, if it was not someone I knew or if I was really sure that it was a threat. So, they either ignore us or they don't believe us. Even the foundation has received cases of trans women who, when trying to file a complaint, are asked for the document to first find out if they have a record or complaints against them, reinforcing the idea that we are dangerous.

Who threatened her?

We do not know. They threatened me and several members of GAAT, but the investigation did not advance. It remained in the preliminary stage. They are threats for being LGBT people and working for this.

In recent years, trans people have gained visibility  in the media. How do you think the media is talking about trans people?

For some time now, we have had some important advances because we talk about trans people, yes, but many times, I think, it is not done in the right way. Many communicators are not trained to speak. It is not just about wanting to talk about these issues but doing it in an assertive way. When reporting, I believe, it should always be done with respect and knowledge. Otherwise, you are getting misinformed. So, that's when I propose to join forces: why don't we combine the knowledge I have on this subject with your reporting skills? That would help a lot to change the social imaginary about trans people.

WILLIAM MORENO HERNÁNDEZ
Journalist ELTIEMPO.COM
On Twitter: @ williammoher




Twitter: https://twitter.com/LAURAWEINS


Director of Fundación GAAT - Grupo de Acción y Apoyo Trans
@FundacionGAAT


We regret to report the passing of Our Director Laura Weinstein (@LAURAWEINS)

 hank you for every moment that you allowed us to build collectively, for your teachings and for all your unconditional support. We send a very warm hug to your entire family. #QEPDRose

https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2021/01/05/transgender-colombia-activist-laura-weinstein-death-tribute-gaat-human-rights/

https://www.publimetro.co/co/noticias/2021/01/03/afortunadamente-la-vida-las-palabras-eligio-homenaje-laura-weinstein.html

https://www.losangelesblade.com/2021/01/02/prominent-transgender-activist-in-colombia-dies/
 
https://www.milenio.com/internacional/latinoamerica/laura-weinstein-activista-trans-colombia-muere-covid-19

https://www.eltiempo.com/vida/murio-laura-weinstein-activista-y-mujer-trans-colombiana-558344

https://www.elespectador.com/noticias/nacional/fallecio-laura-weinstein-activista-y-referente-para-la-poblacion-trans/

https://www.infobae.com/america/colombia/2021/01/02/fallecio-laura-weinstein-una-de-las-principales-lideresas-trans-de-colombia/

https://verietyinfo.com/colombia/laura-weinstein-activista-e-investigadora-sobre-temas-transgenero-fallecio/

https://infoglitz.com/colombia/fallecio-laura-weinstein-activista-transgenero-y-persona-de-referencia/

https://www.shock.co/cultura-pop/murio-la-activista-trans-laura-weinstein

https://twitter.com/FundacionGAAT/status/1345426111241576449

https://twitter.com/LAURAWEINS/status/1344582721356656641

https://twitter.com/Sentiido/status/1345427352436809734

https://twitter.com/ONUHumanRights/status/1345464892061577221
