Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-05-06T17:43:45+01:00

====== Paulo Gustavo (Brazil - 4 May 2021) ======
Created Thursday 06 May 2021
@medical


Paulo Gustavo ("Dona Hermínia")
42
4 May 2021
Hospital Copa Star
Copacabana
Rio de Janeiro
Brazil
-22.9668707,-43.1908268
COVID-19
[did not id as trans AFAIK, but had a drag persona]



Actor and comedian Paulo Gustavo , one of the most popular and admired artists in the country, died on Tuesday (4), at the age of 42 , victim of Covid-19 . Creator of Dona Hermínia and other unforgettable characters in the theater, on TV and in the cinema, he had been hospitalized since March 13 at the Hospital Copa Star, in Copacabana, in the South Zone of Rio (see more in the video above) .

Paulo Gustavo's health condition worsened on Sunday night (2) , when he suffered a pulmonary embolism . Before, he had been showing significant improvements - he had reduced sedatives and blockers and interacted with doctors and her husband, Thales Bretas .

On Tuesday, a new bulletin reported that the actor had an irreversible condition , but kept his vital signs. At 9:12 pm , however, the death of the actor was noted.



Dead Paulo Gustavo, the comic actor died after two months in intensive care for Covid: he was 42 years old
Dead Paulo Gustavo, the comic actor died after two months in intensive care for Covid: he was 42 years old
Gustavo's subtle ironic vein, his eclectic versatility in disguise, has led him to become a very popular stand-up comedian and has gnawed some little particles in TV movies

Farewell to Paulo Gustavo . The 42-year-old Brazilian famous comedian died after being hospitalized in intensive care for almost two months two to Covid. To understand the extent of the national mourning we are talking about, just take a look at his Instagram profile where he had collected 17 million followers. Gustavo, a declared homosexual since adolescence, recently married to a dermatologist, father of twins with a surrogate mother , had Begun His acting career in the theater and in 2004 had had the intuition of His entire career by inventing the character by Dona Herminia, protagonist of the comedy Surto. In 2005 Gustavo continued his theatrical career with the show Infraturas where he began collaborating with the actor and playwright Fabio Porchat. Gustavo's subtle ironic vein, his eclectic versatility in disguise , has led him to become a very popular stand-up comedian and has gnawed some little particles in TV movies.

Until in 2013 Dona Herminia Became the absolute star of the blockbuster movie of the Brazilian film season : Minha mae is uma Peça. Then came two sequels (in 2016 and 2019) and a total popularity That went beyond political alignments and positions on the LGBTQ world. En travesti, Gustavo, made the whole of Brazil laugh, in short. So much I know That after the two months of dramatic hospitalization for Covid and at the hour of His death two to various pulmonary embolisms, Both the previous president of the country, the progressive Lula, and the current conservative Bolsonaro, have remembered him with esteem and affection.

A unanimous condolence of dozens of politicians and public figures (there is also the football player Romario) who, just scrolling through the tweets published by CNNBrasil, all speak indiscriminately of Gustavo as a "champion of humor" without ever dwelling on his lucky disguise as a man in woman, to Tootsie to be clear, evidently become a national cultural mask without obscurantist shields. There are online articles in which even groups of psychologists explain how the words and expressiveness of Gustavo / Dona Herminia have helped many autistic children in socialization and inclusion. Gustavo was hospitalized on March 13 last and after a week he was intubated and from the beginning of April he was kept alive by an artificial lung. The 42-year-old actor suffered from asthma, but had no other serious previous illnesses.




The comedy is orphaned: Goodbye to Dona Herminia: comedian Paulo Gustavo dies at 42, as a result of the covid-19

There were several projects for the cinema with “Vai que Cola”, “Minha Mãe É uma Play”, “Os Homens São de Marte” and “Minha Vida em Marte”, in addition to many theater nights with “Hyperactive” and other shows. Regardless of the format, the actor worked hard almost everywhere, except on open TV.

Globo only gave it the space it deserved in December 2020, with a special late-year delay for “220 Volts”; it was a test for a possible solo program that he will never have now.

At the time, he talked about the pride of the program and also about the fear of being contaminated with the coronavirus during the recordings. “We were afraid to record because of the pandemic. It seemed like we were in an operating room at Projac, with so many protocols. I was afraid to get coronavirus, but it was cool. The recording energy was great,” he celebrated in an interview with leaf. The contamination, however, happened months later.

On closed TV, on the other hand, Paulo Gustavo’s face appeared so much – with “220 Volts”, “Vai que Cola” and “A Vila” – that it is curious to think that he was ashamed of going to television programs. He did not like to give interviews and stated that he felt uncomfortable as a guest of any attraction. This feeling he described as a “semi-panic”, but everything changed when he was working with a script written by himself.

Each character he created seemed to be armor that put him in control of the situation and made TV cameras less threatening. You can understand so much success: in the public eye, the actor was a messenger who made fun of everyday problems and dramas. And, from the perspective of humor, the crises didn’t seem that big anymore.



Bossy, chain-smoking mother in drag a counterpoint to Bolsonaro’s stormtroopers
São Paulo Letter: Success of Dona Hermínia films notable in reactionary political times
Tue, Jan 21, 2020, 20:00
Dona Hermínia (played by comedian Paulo Gustavo), a housewife from Niterói, in My Mother is a Piece of Work 3. Photograph: Facebook
Dona Hermínia (played by comedian Paulo Gustavo), a housewife from Niterói, in My Mother is a Piece of Work 3. Photograph: Facebook

Brazil’s box-office wars this holiday season have seen the force desert the Skywalker clan. One of the galaxy’s most storied families has been bested in multiplexes across the South American nation by the unlikely figure of Dona Hermínia, a housewife from Niterói.

Her return in My Mother is a Piece of Work 3, whose Portuguese title is a pun that nods towards its origins on the stage, is still packing them in even as Episode IX – The Rise of Skywalker beats a full retreat from screens.

The Dona Hermínia Supremacy is easily understandable. She is a hilariously lippy, bossy, chain-smoking, divorced mother-of-three with curlers in her hair and (you’ve guessed it) a heart of gold. Picture a less lewd though somewhat cattier Mrs Brown speaking a mile a minute in Portuguese.

Home videos of his mother which accompany the final credits make clear his is actually a somewhat restrained interpretation
She is the creation of comedian Paulo Gustavo, inspired by his mother, whom he plays in drag. Many Brazilians clearly see something of their own mother in Dona Hermínia. Indeed the film’s producer Iafa Britz says her mother was somewhat disappointed to learn that it was Gustavo’s mother and not her that was the inspiration for the character.

Part of the appeal of the My Mother... films is down to Gustavo and his co-writers producing scripts packed with one-line zingers that he then nails on screen. And just in case viewers thought Gustavo’s highly kinetic performance in any way camps up his source material, home videos of his mother which accompany the final credits make clear his is actually a somewhat restrained interpretation.

The runaway success of the third film, starring a gay man in drag who dedicates it to his mother for always accepting him for who he is, as well as his husband and their twin sons, is all the more notable now that Brazil is passing through a reactionary political moment under far-right president, Jair Bolsonaro.

One-night stand
Previously explaining why he had vetoed an on-screen gay kiss, Gustavo said he was not an “activist”. And yet the first of the film’s two main plot lines centres around the pregnancy of Dona Hermínia’s daughter Marcelina after a one-night stand with a hippy who she then moves in with.

Despite being told with the series’ usual wit and warmth, this tale is unlikely to have impressed Damares Alves, Brazil’s current human rights minister, an evangelical pastor with plans to prevent teenage pregnancies by teaching sexual abstinence in schools.

Alvim excused himself saying any similarities between his declarations and those of Hitler’s notorious minister of propaganda were mere 'rhetorical coincidences'
The other major plot line sees the happy marriage of Dona Hermínia’s son Juliano to his boyfriend Tiago (Dona Hermínia’s delight at which is threatened when Tiago’s mother tries to hijack the preparations). This is likely to appeal even less to Bolsonaro.

The president is a notorious homophobe who got elected in part by falsely claiming his opponents were introducing “gay kits” in schools to promote homosexuality. Just last week, Bolsonaro had to sack his culture secretary Roberto Alvim after he plagiarised a speech by Joseph Goebbels when promising a Brazilian art “that will be heroic and will be national . . . Or it will be nothing”.

Alvim excused himself saying any similarities between his declarations and those of Hitler’s notorious minister of propaganda were mere “rhetorical coincidences”, an odd defence when political opponents are accusing the government of fascistic leanings.

National heroine
We can assume Alvim did not imagine a national heroine like Dona Hermínia when he spoke of a heroic and national art. Bolsonaro has made clear his own disdain for the country’s cinematic output, and one of Alvim’s underlings even threatened to review Brazil’s film classification regime after learning My Mother . . . 3 was certified suitable for children aged 12 and over.

But such ideological disdain didn’t prevent the first lady, Michelle Bolsonaro, attending a screening in Brasília, though without her husband. The huge popularity of Dona Hermínia, with her inclusive take on family and life, offers a hilarious but important counterpoint to the exclusionary ultra-nationalist ideology of the current administration.

A comedy by itself is unlikely to lead to any immediate decrease in the country’s frightening levels of homophobic violence. Or force the country’s reactionaries off the political stage any time soon.

But its success hints at the fact that the future of Brazil does not necessarily belong to Bolsonaro and his ideological stormtroopers.


Dona Hermínia's Facebook profile is https://www.facebook.com/Dona-Herminia-1635758460046867/.

https://www.ruetir.com/2021/05/05/the-comedy-is-orphaned-goodbye-to-dona-herminia-comedian-paulo-gustavo-dies-at-42-as-a-result-of-the-covid-19/

https://g1.globo.com/rj/rio-de-janeiro/noticia/2021/05/05/paulo-gustavo-sera-cremado-nesta-quinta-em-cerimonia-restrita.ghtml

https://g1.globo.com/rj/rio-de-janeiro/noticia/2021/05/04/paulo-gustavo-morre-de-covid-no-rio-aos-42-anos.ghtml

https://www.irishtimes.com/news/world/bossy-chain-smoking-mother-in-drag-a-counterpoint-to-bolsonaro-s-stormtroopers-1.4147019
