Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-03-17T07:55:29+00:00

====== Sandra Alvino (Florence - 13 Mar 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 17 March 2021
@medical



Sandra Alvino
77
13 Mar 2021
Florence
Italy
"incurable disease"


Sandra Alvino, historic champion of transsexual rights, dies
At the end of a long illness



Sandra Alvino died this morning. She was 77 years old, she died in Florence after being consumed by an incurable disease. The historic president of the Italian transsexuals association, who could only change sex in 1974, was civilly married to Fortunato Talotta, a man and husband who was close to him until the last moment. Fortunato and Sandra married in 1982 in the Sollicciano prison. They had met in another Florentine prison, that of the Murate in the early seventies, and it was immediately love.

"I am a woman and I have always sought the dignity that has never been given to me - she pointed out in her interviews - I spent fourteen years in prison, they also gave me the false ideology for having put an "a" in place of a "o "on the name of my identity card. I got married and couldn't find a job, so I went into depression and was declared invalid. I am an honest person, I have never gone to undress on TV and I have always safeguarded my parents' name. In the 1960s we fought to prove that we were women and not men or in between. On April 14, 1982, we obtained Law 164, according to which the judge can order a 'rectification of attribution of sex' and recognize you as a female even if you were born a male. Today I am still struggling, but against the fact of being associated with the trans who undress on the street and prostitute themselves. I published a book, I wrote to the President of the Republic, I asked for help from the various Presidents of the Council, from the various Mayors, Renzi and Nardella included, with nice smiles and their handshakes in front of cameras and photographers, but then without completing their promises and commitments ".

" Even about Don Santoro, the Florentine priest parish priest in Le Piagge, who wanted to marry her with a great media hype - a marriage that was in the end a simple blessing - had her ideas: it was believed that she had been" exploited ", but she thought, at the beginning, that she could have been at her side in the battles she has always fought, which then did not fully happen - a note reads".

In any case, a Church that has always been close to Sandra, in particular Cardinal Giuseppe Betori who, through his particular secretariat, did not fail to help her when she was in difficulty.

Sandra Alvino passed away on the day of the election of Pope Francis, which took place eight years ago. “I am Catholic - Sandra said - and I ask the Pope to be able to accept our situation. We are people who have suffered, live honestly and have faith, but unfortunately, not having a body suitable for sex and mind, they have modified it to live better, we ask that the Church accept our condition and our unions ".



https://www.luccaindiretta.it/cronaca/2021/03/13/lutto-a-firenze-e-morta-sandra-alvino-la-paladina-dei-diritti-trans-stroncata-da-un-male-incurabile/226903/

https://www.firenzetoday.it/cronaca/morta-sandra-alvino-transessuali-presidente.html
