Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-16T14:30:22+01:00

====== Karen Salavarria (Guayas - 12 Oct 2020) ======
Created Friday 16 October 2020
@uncategorised




Karen Salavarría
12 Oct 2020
Babahoyo, Los Ríos
Guayas
Ecuador
misadventure


They ate the 'murderer' pig

The former trans queen died of health problems after a pig fell on her stomach. She was hospitalized and underwent surgery in Babahoyo, Los Ríos, but did not recover.

The Cat was buried in Salitre as she asked her friends, with carnival foam, music and a drink. But the funeral of Karen Salavarría, the former trans queen of this Guayas canton, had a particular ingredient: the hornado. Yes, they ate the pig involved in the accident that cost the stylist her life.

La Gata had bought a pig that weighed approximately one and a half quintals, to 'give it a spin' and celebrate its birthday on October 10 with a binge. But on the 3rd of the same month, Karen was pulling the pig with a rope when it slipped and the animal fell on its stomach, said Pilar Acosta Franco, her sister-in-law.

Due to the accident, the Cat had health problems, so she was transferred to the Salitre and Daule hospitals. His condition was not improving.

Then she was operated on in a care home in Babahoyo, Los Ríos province. According to Shirley León, niece of the deceased, Karen had an umbilical hernia and the accident would have caused acute peritonitis that affected some vital organs. Finally, she passed away on Monday 12.

1. Relatives and friends of La Gata distributed fried dishes among those attending the funeral of the ex-queen La Gata's family and friends distributed fried dishes among those attending the ex-queen's funeral EDGAR ROMERO
With the sorrow for the departure of La Gata, 45 years old and winner of beauty events of the LGBTI collective (she was Queen of Carnival, Tourism, Criolla Bonita, Miss Agua Dulce, among other titles), her relatives had nothing left but slaughter the pig and distribute it during the wake as a fry.

Each relative or ‘pana’ who came to the funeral, received their plate of baked goods, but not as revenge for the sad end of the Cat, but because it was not necessary to waste what they had ready for their ‘birthday’.

RELATED
gabriela
Gabriela Villalba on her father's death: "It seems a lie to me that he is gone"
October 15,2020
For this reason, Vernaza avenue was filled with people last Wednesday afternoon, to say goodbye to Karen, whose body rested in a coffin inside her beauty cabinet. They arrived from Guayaquil, Samborondón, Daule, Santa Lucía, Nobol, Durán, Pedro Carbo and other locations in this province.

“Salitre is in mourning, the Cat left us. The people have turned to fire her because my friend always helped her people with solidarity works. Her departure leaves us a great void ”, mentioned also stylist Jorge Wong.

“His legacy of helping the people will always live on in us. It's a 'see you soon', my queen, "said Carola Vargas, representative of the LGBTI community of Samborondón.

3. Before entering the coffin into the vault, they threw foam and chopped pieces of paper, as in carnival. Before entering the coffin into the vault, they threw foam and chopped pieces of paper, as in carnival. EDGAR ROMERO
They fired her with a Selena song

The Gata's chest traveled the main streets of Salitre in a van, before the mass that was celebrated in the Santa Marianita church.

With themes such as 'Si una vez', by Selena, Karen's friends and family advanced to the local cemetery, amidst fireworks.

Before the coffin entered the vault, his 'panas' played with foam.


"Let me live as I am" was the slogan that was repeated on the posters that showed some representatives of the Gay, Lesbian, Bisexual, Transsexual and Intersex (GLBTI) community in the proclamation that took place yesterday in the main streets of Babahoyo .

Saturday 30 June 2018 | 11:00

This parade, which was held for the first time in the province of Los Ríos, was a demonstration of the struggle for equal rights for GLBTIs.

“Through this parade we want to seek that in this city we are given the same rights in labor, social and family matters. What we are looking for is to be included, because when we want to look for a job and they see a photo of a boy, they push me away. The same thing happens in some bars and nightclubs where we are not allowed to enter ”, commented Andrea Vega, Miss Babahoyo GLBTI Pride.
Act. During the tour, which started after 6:00 p.m., Karen Salavarría, a native of the Salitre canton, was one of the trans girls who attracted the most attention, because she walked the streets of the city riding "Satan", a black horse . 
The event was attended by groups of Vinces, Quevedo, Babahoyo, Baba, Montalvo, Salitre, Playas, among other cantons in the country. 
Fasana Reyes was another of the girls applauded during the parade. The representative from Playas was aboard a truck wearing a colorful mermaid costume, accompanied by "La Chola and El Cholo playero", typical characters of this canton in the Guayas province. 
"I think it is good that they parade demanding their rights, here I have many friends who deserve the same rights as others," said Rocío Acosta, who came from Bolívar Street and Tercera Peatonal to observe the proclamation.

https://www.extra.ec/noticia/actualidad/comieron-chancho-asesino-estilista-lgbti-muertes-43101.html


see also:
https://www.eldiario.ec/noticias-manabi-ecuador/475821-desfilaron-con-orgullo/
