Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-08T15:20:57+00:00

====== Kimberly Patricia Cope (Georgia - 27 Dec 2020) ======
Created Friday 08 January 2021
@uncategorised



Kimberly Patricia Cope
40
2020_12_27_Kimberly-Patricia-Cope.jpg
https://www.pghlesbian.com/2021/01/40-year-old-black-trans-woman-found-dead-in-athens-georgia-packing-lot/
27 Dec 2020
Athens
Georgia
USA
not reported


Her death is considered suspicious.


Athens resident Kimberly Patricia Cope, found dead Sunday Morning
Although Kimberly Patricia Cope legally changed her first name from a masculine one we have yet to ascertain if she identified as transgender.

Added by Kelli Busey on January 2, 2021.
Saved under General
Kimberly Patricia Cope
Kimberly Patricia Cope / Classic City News


Kimberly Patricia Cope, 40, was found Sunday morning at 6:00 am in Raising Cane’s parking lot across from her apartment on Baxter St.
According to Baxter City News which first reported on this, Ms. Cope was identified as male and in the Athens-Clarke County police report.

Friends reportedly told police that the last time they knew she was across the street between 1 am and 3 am using wifi.

“They stated a white SUV pulled up and was speaking with Kimberly unknown if she got into the vehicle or not and when they looked outside again Kimberly no longer was in sight,” the officer wrote in the police report.

Kimberly Patricia Cope was found by a jogger at 6 am in the parking lot of Raising Cane’s Chicken Fingers at 795 Baxter St.

Sonny Wilson, Clarke County Corenor told Baxter City News that Kimberly Patricia Cope had legally changed her first name from a masculine name, presumably her deadname. He also told the local media outlet that her body was found without any signs of trauma.

It is unknown if Kimberly Cope publicly identified as transgender at this but time initial reports would indicate that she most likely did. It is also unknown at this time which gender appears on Kimberly Patricia Cope’s legal records. Until we know otherwise, we will identify the victim with female pronouns.

Planet Transgender has requested a police report and has put a call in with the county coroner.

The Georgia Voice headline identifies the victim as a transgender woman wrote:

While the victim’s exact gender identity is unknown, in a report obtained by Georgia Voice police identified Cope as a male. Classic City News, which first reported the incident, also included her deadname in their article, despite using she/her pronouns in reference to the victim.

Cope’s body was transported Monday to undergo an autopsy at the Georgia Bureau of Investigation’s State Crime Lab.

Police asked for anyone with information about this case to contact Sgt. Gregory Dickson at (762) 400-7070 or gregory.dickson@accgov.com.



A Black transgender woman was found dead in a parking lot in Athens-Clarke County, Georgia, on the morning of December 27, the county coroner told Gay City News.

Police have identified the victim as 40-year-old Kimberly Patricia Cope. Coroner Sonny Wilson, who misgendered the victim during a call with Gay City News, said a woman found Cope’s body while she was walking her dog in front of a Raising Canes Chicken Fingers at 795 Baxter Street in Athens.

Wilson said there were no initial signs of foul play, but explained that the outcome of the investigation “depends on what the autopsy tells.”

According to the Georgia Voice, Cope was misgendered in the city’s police report. At the time of her death, Wilson said Cope was wearing “lady’s sleepwear.” Local police did not immediately return Gay City News’ requests for comment on January 4.

The victim’s friends told officers they saw a person in a white SUV pull up and speak with Cope, the Georgia Voice, reported. It’s unknown whether or not she got in the vehicle. However, Classic City News — a news outlet based in Athens, Georgia — reported that when friends looked outside again, “Kimberly no longer was in sight.” Classic City News reported that the victim’s friends last saw her between 1 a.m. to 3 a.m. 

Police are still investigating Cope’s death. Her body was transported on January 4 to undergo an autopsy at the Georgia Bureau of Investigation’s State Crime Lab, Wilson said.

Cope’s case contributes to a growing death toll of Black and Latinx transgender women in the nation. Among other recent cases include the murder of Courtney “Eshay” Key, a Black transgender woman who was killed on Christmas Day. Earlier that month, Bella Pugh, a gender-non-conforming teenager, was killed at a Christmas party in Prichard, Alabama, near Mobile.

The Human Rights Campaign, which closely tracks deadly violence facing transgender individuals, reported that 2020 was the deadliest on record for the trans community, with at least 43 known victims of violent fatalities.



Her name was Kimberely Patricia Cope. She was 40 years old, born in Michigan and raised in Ohio. She relocated to Athens, Georgia in her adult years with her family.  Two days after Christmas, her body was found in the parking lot of restaurant a few blocks from her home.

Little is known about Kimberely. Law enforcement, media, and family members misgendered her in some spaces, but used accurate gender language in others such as her obituary. Thanks to diligent community members some media sources updated their coverage to at least remove the most inaccurate content including her dead name.

We don’t know how she died or why. We do not know the results of the autopsy. We do not know why her family published an accurate obituary, but still misgendered her in their personal content. We don’t know much about Kimberely at all because her social media was tightly locked down. Is the use of correct gendered language in her obituary an accurate description of her lived life? We know she was assigned a different traditionally male name at birth, a named shared with her father, and she went to court to legally change her name to Kimberely Patricia (note the unique spelling of Kimberely) and used Kim in everday matters.

We can say that most 40-year-old Black women don’t just die in parking lots at 6 AM. Does that mean she met with foul play – well, there’s not enough information for that conclusion either in spite of the mysterious truck. If her death was accidental or due to an overdose, those results from the coroner might take longer to come back

From the GAVoice

Kimberly Patricia Cope, 40, was found dead on Sunday (December 27) in the parking lot of the Raising Cane’s Chicken Fingers on Baxter Street in Athens, Georgia.

Cope’s body was found at about 6:00am Sunday morning. Friends of Cope told officers that she was last seen at 1:00 and 3:00am that morning across the street from her apartment, which was within walking distance from the scene. According to her friends, a white SUV pulled up, and the driver spoke to Cope before she disappeared. It is unknown if she got in the vehicle or not.

Clearly, something is missing – where are her friends? There are no comments on her social media, no tags on other channels, no tributes on her obituary.

http://www.sgn.org/sgnnews49_03/page20.cfm

https://planettransgender.com/athens-resident-kimberly-patricia-cope-found-dead-sunday-morning/

https://www.pghlesbian.com/2021/01/40-year-old-black-trans-woman-found-dead-in-athens-georgia-packing-lot/

https://thegavoice.com/news/transgender-woman-found-dead-in-athens-georgia/

https://www.gaycitynews.com/black-trans-woman-dead-parking-lot/
