Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-27T20:30:50+01:00

====== Nairovi Leclerc (Santo Domingo - 1 Mar 2020) ======
Created Sunday 27 September 2020
@uncategorised



Nairovi Leclerc 
2020_03_01_Nairobi.jpg
https://www.diariolibre.com/actualidad/sucesos/una-mujer-trans-fue-encontrada-muerta-en-un-parque-de-la-zona-colonial-BB17434775
1 Mar 2020
Santo Domingo
Distrito Nacional
Dominican Republic
not reported


Many residents and people who frequent Duarte Park in the Colonial Zone of Santo Domingo knew her as Nairobi, a transgender woman, very charismatic and friendly. Last Monday, his lifeless body was found in the Fray Bartolomé de las Casas park, and so far the authorities have not issued any information about what happened.

According to Nairobi acquaintances, the body was found on the ground, next to a park bench where there was a bottle of rum. He had nosebleeds and the skin was very dark (like when there are bruises).

Some believe that he could be strangled at the scene, while others maintain the version that he died from a stroke, so they demand that the National Police and the Public Ministry investigate the fact. They indicate that there are many cameras in the area that could help with clarification.

According to people who frequent Duarte Park in the Colonial City, last Sunday night was the last time they saw Nairobi alive. They say she looked the same as always, dressed in feminine clothes, her false hair and very cheerful. Now they do not leave the astonishment by the tragic news.

On Monday night a group concentrated on the park where the body was found and lit candles in mourning. Although the people who spoke with Diario Libre decided to remain anonymous, on Facebook and Instagram social networks, friends and acquaintances have placed messages lamenting what happened, and asking for an investigation or simply remembering some pleasant moment they shared with the trans woman.

Nairobi appeared dead this morning in the Fray Bartolomé de las Casas Park (Billini, between Meriño and Hostos, Colonial City of Santo Domingo). Nairobi, the "healthiest" girl in Parque Duarte (she said "healthy" for her effusive, cheerful and obliged greeting). Nairobi every night. The one with long dark hair. The one with the short dresses. The one with the black wallet where everything fit to make up the makeup fit. Nairobi, the night girl we all met.

Nairobi died and we don't know anything about the circumstances yet. Some friends confirm it, it's her. Some saw her last night "cheerful and smiling", she was seen talking and flowing in her routine. This morning, it wasn't her anymore, it was an inert body in a public park. A contranorma body. A black body. A dissident body. A trans body.

This note is the beginning of my request form responses. What happened to Nairobi? Why did she appear dead? How he died? Did anyone kill her? Who? I want answers.

Many residents and people who frequent Duarte Park in the Colonial Zone of Santo Domingo knew her as Nairobi, a transgender woman, very charismatic and friendly. Last Monday, his lifeless body was found in the Fray Bartolomé de las Casas park, and so far the authorities have not issued any information about what happened.

According to Nairobi acquaintances, the body was found on the ground, next to a park bench where there was a bottle of rum. He had nosebleeds and the skin was very dark (like when there are bruises).

Some believe that he could be strangled at the scene, while others maintain the version that he died from a stroke, so they demand that the National Police and the Public Ministry investigate the fact. They indicate that there are many cameras in the area that could help with clarification.

According to people who frequent Duarte Park in the Colonial City, last Sunday night was the last time they saw Nairobi alive. They say she looked the same as always, dressed in feminine clothes, her false hair and very cheerful. Now they do not leave the astonishment by the tragic news.

On Monday night a group concentrated on the park where the body was found and lit candles in mourning. Although the people who spoke with Diario Libre decided to remain anonymous, on Facebook and Instagram social networks, friends and acquaintances have placed messages lamenting what happened, and asking for an investigation or simply remembering some pleasant moment they shared with the trans woman.

Young transgender known as Nairobi was found dead in the Colonial Zone

Activists mourn the death and ask that the case be clarified

Santo Domingo, RD.- The body of a young transgender known by the social name of Nairobi was found lifeless, according to versions it was last seen alive this Sunday in the vicinity of l parque Duarte  [Duarte Park] in Zona Colonial.

This Monday a well-known lady of his learned of his death because he saw the ambulance that arrived at the Fray Bartolomé de Las Casas Park where Nairobi woke up dead. So far the version of the authorities are not clear, since an activist said it was a heart attack.

However, the Transgender community is not satisfied with that version, so tomorrow they will hold a meeting with the corresponding authorities in search of more information .

The remains of Nairobi will be delivered to their families this Tuesday at 10 am and will be veiled at the Blandino Funeral Home of the Long Savannah, in the Eastern Zone. Subsequently the transgender community will make a lighting of belas in the Duarte park.

Nairobi's family claim that it may have been a heart attack). Transgender women in the Dominican Republic are victims of oblivion and abject marginalization. Not only do they lack legal and medical structure to live fully, many are killed and they are not served justice.

Victims of discrimination not only in their family circles, but also in social circles, they are openly denied opportunities for work and improvement. For this society simply do not exist ...
.
.
@luisgrahamwrites: "Nairobi found dead this morning at the Park Fray Bartolome de las Casas (Billini between Meriño and Hostos, Colonial City of Santo Domingo).
.
.
Nairobi, the girl" healthier "Parque Duarte (he said" healthy " for his effusive greeting, cheerful and obliged.) Nairobi, the one with every night, the one with long dark hair, the one with the short dresses, the one with the black wallet, where there was everything that could be used to touch up the makeup, Nairobi, the girl from night we all knew.
.
.
he died Nairobi and we know nothing yet of the circumstances. Some friends confirm this is it. Some saw it last night for the last time "cheerful and smiling , " he was seen talking and flow into your routine. "
.
.
Nairobi joins a long list of trans women who have died in uncertain situations ...
.
.
Like Jessica Rubí, a 32-year-old trans woman whose dismembered body was found on a wasteland at the entrance of the Jobo Dulce section of Higüey, La Altagracia province on June 4, 2017. Jessica Rubí was a well-known rights activist Homosexuals, lesbians and transsexuals in the region, of the first people who worked on HIV-AIDS in La Romana.
.
.
Carolina Paola: a 21-year-old trans woman killed for receiving multiple bruises on her body and head with a bat by strangers in the town of Villa Mella, Santo Domingo Norte, on July 25, 2017
..
.
And many other more than 50 transgender women who since 2006 have died whose deaths do not matter, nor hurt this society, and in more than 30 cases have gone unpunished ...
.
.
Nairobi, you will be missed. #Nairobieraunamujer
1d
karlaboyer_'s profile picture
karlaboyer_
Before they start looking for Nairobi's killer, the girl died of a heart attack. However, the other cases are very sad. I do not share the principles of the community, but for all those "Christians" or "homophobes" who use a belief to hate others, it is human lives that are lost regardless of their sexual orientation, and should not be ignored to violence, much less to homicide
15h15 likesReply

darthferv's profile picture
darthferv
Wow, they killed someone more than the many who kill every moment.
16h6 likesReply

alexandra_lionheart's profile picture
alexandra_lionheart
Oh no! Oh, don't tell me that, please, I commented, but I hadn't seen the picture. Fuck said we have lost humanity and that even politicians here promote exclusion but heck had not seen the photo. He was the coolest, friendliest and friendliest in the area ???????????? The fabulous black woman as I said, we even had drinks. What a bitter taste I have left this morning. No one should die just like that.
19h11 likesReply

mbllkingbear's profile picture
mbllkingbear
Did she die or was she murdered?
21hReply

maricastellanos13's profile picture
maricastellanos13
But how so? For being trans their deaths go unpunished? They are not human? They are not lives? They are not part of our society? I do not get it.....
1d14 likesReply

chriskg2020's profile picture
chriskg2020
The partner was not killed, died of a heart attack in the street.
At one time trans women were ignored by justice, but thanks to the incidence of organizations such as TRANSSA and others today it is not so.

Of the latest crimes committed between 2017 and 2019, more than 80% of the investigation has been initiated and those involved are held in coercive measure. We do not have the best justice but with follow-up and documented information we can act.

On the rest if unfortunately in our country the trans population is a victim of exclusion, discrimination and rejection.
1d28 likesReply

lorypop85's profile picture
lorypop85
Reading this breaks my heart and gives me the chills; what a pain so great that all those lives have not received justice, what a great pain to know that we are surrounded by so much evil ??
1d60 likesReply

rojomate13's profile picture
rojomate13
It is not because it is yellowish or anything like it. But I want to know what were the causes of his death. Although it is an irremediable loss, I prefer to think that his death has been for a cause other than violence or discrimination, of course until proven otherwise.
1d16 likesReply

bellooliver05's profile picture
bellooliver05
I saw her this Saturday. Very diva, regal and friendly. Too bad it ended like this
1d18 likesReply

carolyn_3010's profile picture
carolyn_3010
If people understood that we are all equal and therefore, we all deserve justice. The world was different
1d51 likesReply

cinthiajimenezzz's profile picture
cinthiajimenezzz
There are people whose hatred is so great that they harm others without doing anything to them. If one does not agree with the way of life of others, we must simply focus on our own and let each person do what he wants with his life. .

Do not mistreat, belittle, discriminate or kill anyone because of their sexual, political or religious preference. Love, tolerance and respect is what urges this society ??
1d31 likesReply

ashraow's profile picture
ashraow
Rest in power. We need to give voice to trans women, the truth is an emergency.


> No black trans die. No black trans die if it is not forgotten. Nairobi lived in the Dominican Republic. Nairobi now lives in our trans memories. #NairobiEraUnaMujer
- carlosincarlo

Nairobi Lecler, the transgender woman, whose lifeless body was found in the Fray Bartolomé de las Casas park , in the Colonial City, died from cardiac arrest, several organizations working on defending the rights of transgender release

In a press release signed by several organizations, including Transsa, Human Rights Observatory of Trans Persons and the Dominican GLBT Volunteering, they established that they followed up on the investigations carried out by the corresponding authorities, which ruled out that it was a homicide and They established it was a heart attack.

The institutions lamented the death of Lecler and reported that the wake is held on Tuesday at the Funeraria Blandino on Sabana Larga Avenue, in Santo Domingo Este.

His friends, close friends and many of the people who frequent Duarte Park in the Colonial City describe Nairobi as a transgender woman, very charismatic and friendly. They came to nickname her as "healthy", due to her always effusive greeting.



Santo Domingo, RD.- Neighbors and friends of a transgender found dead in a park in the Colonial City described the death as suspicious, despite the fact that the Observatory of Human Rights of Trans Persons and the Dominican GLBT Volunteering said Tuesday that It was a natural death.

People close to Nairovi Leclerc questioned the version that this would have died as a result of a cardiac arrest when he was in the park Fray Bartolomé de las Casas.

Representatives of the GLBT community also indicated through a statement that they join the pain that overwhelms relatives and friends of Leclerc, ensuring that heaven receives a companion very dear to all who knew her.

https://www.masnoticias.com.do/2020/03/04/encuentra-transexual-muerto-en-parque-zona-colonial/

https://m.elcaribe.com.do/2020/03/04/la-transgenero-nairobi-murio-de-un-paro-cardiaco/

https://curiosodigital.com.do/ponen-en-duda-muerte-de-una-transgenero-haya-sido-por-causas-naturales/

https://www.diariolibre.com/actualidad/sucesos/un-infarto-causo-la-muerte-a-mujer-trans-encontrada-en-parque-de-la-zona-colonial-IG17449203

https://elveedordigital.com/un-infarto-causo-la-muerte-a-mujer-trans-encontrada-en-parque-de-la-zona-colonial/

https://reddenoticias.online/aclaran-muerte-de-transgenero/

https://curiosodigital.com.do/ponen-en-duda-muerte-de-una-transgenero-haya-sido-por-causas-naturales/

https://www.facebook.com/VisionRDN/posts/2919481941442240

https://visionrdn.com/aclaran-muerte-de-transgenero/

https://www.diariolibre.com/actualidad/sucesos/una-mujer-trans-fue-encontrada-muerta-en-un-parque-de-la-zona-colonial-BB17434775

https://turepublica.com/noticias/una-joven-transgenero-conocida-como-nairobi-fue-hallada-muerta-en-la-zona-colonial/

https://www.losmocanos.com/fue-encontrado-muerta-en-un-parque-de-la-zona-colonial/

https://domiplay.net/video/permanece-en-patologia-forense-cuerpo-03-03-20-cdn-FYUyt4

https://www.instagram.com/p/B9P3qsPnTps/

https://www.instagram.com/p/B9SNL8qHYAV/

https://www.instagram.com/p/B9QW2g5nI1D/

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FYULxseZyt4
