Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-17T22:51:12+01:00

====== Sarita Oliveira de Sa (Porto Velho - 6 Mar 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 17 June 2020


Sarita Oliveira de Sá
25
2020_03_06_Sarita-Oliveira-de-Sa.jpg
https://www.euideal.com/noticia/6104/morre-travesti-sarita-da-7-apos-cair-no-rio-madeira-corpo-foi-devorado-por-peixes.html
6 Mar 2020
Porto Velho
Brazil
drowned

Homeless; fell into the river while bathing.
Eaten by fish & bones recovered

According to information, Sarita was bathing on the edge of a floating boat, on Friday afternoon, when she lost her balance and fell on the Madeira River in  Porto Velho .


Transvestite body known as 'Sarita' is found on the Madeira River in Porto Velho

Sarita would have fallen into the river last Friday (6). Fire 
Department conducted searches for about 2:30 am on Saturday morning (7).

03/07/2020 11:46  Updated há 2 horas

The body of transvestite Sarita was found on the Madeira River in Porto Velho this Saturday morning (7). The Fire Department started the search after the information that the victim had fallen into the river on the afternoon of last Friday (6).

According to firefighters who worked at the site, Sarita's body was located after two and a half hours of searching, approximately 10 meters from the river's edge in the Cai n'Água port region, in the center of the capital. Due to the action of fish, only the bone was found.

The commander of the Fire Department explained that the searches were not started on Friday (6) night for security reasons.

During the searches, several people gathered around the port. One of the residents of the region, Reinaldo Nunes, said that Sarita used to frequent the place. "I live nearby and always saw her around here. She is very sad, she is a human being. She could be a relative of us. She was dear here, the people liked her very much, she did not mean anything to anyone", she laments.

he body of transvestite Sarita was found on the Madeira River in Porto Velho this Saturday morning (7). The Fire Department started the search after the information that the victim had fallen into the river on the afternoon of last Friday (6).


According to firefighters who worked at the site, Sarita's body was located after two and a half hours of searching, approximately 10 meters from the river's edge in the Cai n'Água port region, in the center of the capital. Due to the action of fish, only the bone was found.
The commander of the Fire Department explained that the searches were not started on Friday (6) night for security reasons.

During the searches, several people gathered around the port. One of the residents of the region, Reinaldo Nunes, said that Sarita used to frequent the place. "I live nearby and always saw her around here. She is very sad, she is a human being. She could be a relative of us. She was dear here, the people liked her very much, she did not mean anything to anyone", she laments.

https://www.newsrondonia.com.br/noticia/147765-as-buscas-por-sarita-da-7-recomecam-agora-ao-vivo

https://docnews.com.br/2020/03/hoje-corpo-do-famoso-travesti-de-porto-velho-sarita-da-7-e-resgatado-na-manha-deste-sabado-do-rio-madeira/

https://www.euideal.com/noticia/6104/morre-travesti-sarita-da-7-apos-cair-no-rio-madeira-corpo-foi-devorado-por-peixes.html

https://g1.globo.com/ro/rondonia/noticia/2020/03/07/corpo-de-morador-de-rua-conhecido-como-sarita-e-encontrado-no-rio-madeira-em-porto-velho.ghtml

https://portovelho.portaldacidade.com/noticias/cidade/encontrados-restos-mortais-do-morador-de-rua-sarita-5601




EXCLUSIVE - Travesti arrested in Goiás tried to help Sarita da 7 in Rondônia - By Anderson Nascimento
Rodrigo relapsed and returned to prostitution. Thursday, January 14, 2021 - 13:55
The news of two transvestites arrested in Águas Lindas de Goiás, published in the Jornal Eletrônico TV CMN , reverberated in the State of Rondônia. It is known that one thing has nothing to do with the other, but when it comes to news, it doesn't matter the time or the location. The news has to come firsthand, and that was the mission of investigative police journalist Anderson Nascimento.


In a relentless search, Nascimento contacted journalism TV CMN, to find out more details of the arrest of two transvestites, as one of them could be a young man who left the world of prostitution to follow God's ways in Rondônia.

With an intelligent nose, Nascimento observed that the tattoos that one of the suspects has on his shoulders, could be the young Rodrigo Santana dos Santos, the "Warrior of God".

When Rodrigo left the world of prostitution, he surrendered to the gospel and decided to take his old friend, Wellison Sá, a homeless man popularly known as "Sarita da 7" from the streets, and take him inside his house and church.


There were moments of great fighting, judgments, relapses and some victories. Despite all of Rodrigo's efforts, it is known that drug abstinence is cruel. In yet another relapse, Sarita took to the streets and went to bathe in the Madeira River, where she disappeared into the waters.

On March 7 of last year, after a day of disappearance, divers from the Fire Department located Sarita's remains. The candirus fish had already devoured Sarita's body (video by clicking the link below)

SEARCHES FOR 'SARITA DA 7' RESTART NOW - LIVE
Since Sarita's death, young Rodrigo has remained on social media, but in one of the Facebook posts, he said he would not stay at the church, as he was on trial and was not worthy of the altar.


THE THEFT

This morning we were surprised with a police report from the TV CNM portal, indicating the arrest of two transvestites in the municipality of Águas Lindas de Goiás, suspected of committing theft against an application driver.

Rodrigo, who was in the back seat, turned off the victim's vehicle and ordered him to hand over all the money, otherwise he would make a scandal, and would state that the victim had hired a sexual program and did not want to pay.

The victim reported that he had no money, and at this point one of the suspects took a card machine and forced the victim to make a debit transaction. In all, the pair subtracted about R $ 600.00 from the worker and fled.

The worker called the Military Police, who managed to locate the suspects and were presented at the police station for the crime of extortion.

COMPASSION

It is unfortunate to know that in the face of the whole situation, young Rodrigo did not have the wisdom to conduct his life in a dignified manner, but he also lacks a little compassion for others, in welcoming and helping. In little or much, the simple gesture of reaching out to those most in need is pleasurable.

Thank you CNM TV

Anderson Nascimento
Investigative Police Journalist


https://www.newsrondonia.com.br/noticia/163441-exclusivo-travesti-preso-em-goias-tentou-ajudar-a-sarita-da-7-em-rondonia-por-anderson-nascimento
