Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-11-30T06:31:49+00:00

====== Floripes (Salvador - 3 Jul 1984) ======
Created Monday 30 November 2020
@violence



Floripes ["A Alegria da Cidade"]
Salvador
1984_07_03_Floripes.jpg
https://www.correio24horas.com.br/noticia/nid/a-historia-de-floripes-primeira-travesti-assumida-de-salvador-morta-de-forma-brutal/
3 Jul 1984
Bahia
Brazil
murdered


The story of Floripes, Salvador's first transvestite, brutally killed

Known as 'The Joy of the City', she faced homophobia in her arm and enchanted the parties with her dances and staff
In moments like the one we are experiencing, serious journalism gains even more relevance. We need each other to get through this storm. If you can, support our work and 
The story of Floripes, Salvador's first transvestite, brutally killed

Floripes, 'A Alegria da Cidade', at the 1979 Conceição da Praia Party (Photo: Reproduction)

Floripes had the intelligence acquired in the struggle for survival. If the provocation, for the slightest slip, slipped into offense, there was no conversation, it was rain of fist right there.  

A striking figure in the imaginary of downtown Salvador, for more than a decade, he was seen parading on Rua Chile, Barroquinha and Baixa dos Sapateiros. She was also a regular at parties in the square and did not miss a single Bonfim, Iemanjá or Santa Bárbara. He wore a rue branch behind his ear, bouncing between the abundant hair loose in the wind. Beads hung around the neck of the orixás.

“He was a black man, carrying candomblé symbols and, surely, the first transvestite in town. And although he carried marks stigmatized by society, he never remained silent or accepted submission. Floripes walked around the visibility spaces to say: 'I exist. And I can and deserve to be here. 'This is its importance, ”says Adson Brito, a history professor and psychologist, who keeps a group on Facebook (“ Salvador has many stories! ”) About events and important personalities in our capital.

Pouting
The arrival of Floripes always precipitated a unique event, overcoming the boredom of routine tasks. The distinguished Salvadoran ladies pouted, while the more radical crossed the street lightly to demonstrate a superior pleasure in not allowing the same sidewalk to be divided. 

Little boys raised in upscale neighborhoods blushed and “serious businessmen” babbled (without daring to raise the tone) offenses directed at their honor.  

Floripes shrugged his shoulders at that festival of contempt and hostilities, being welcomed and celebrated among the commoners. On each corner, she was greeted by a chorus of “Floripeeeees, fagot” - something, today, that would sound extremely homophobic.

At the time, however, it was a kind of greeting, a cordiality answered with calculated mannerisms. Floripes put his hand on his waist, accentuated the sway and let out his low voice, making his staff reverberate: “only in Bahiaaaaaa”. The applause confirmed the success of the number.

In a short time, he started to answer for a new nickname, indicative of his solar and overflowing figure: “A Alegria da Cidade”.

His predilection for colorful clothes reinforced this luminous personality, as well as the resourcefulness in acrobatic dances and juggles that are difficult to perform. During the parties, there was always a moment for free expression of the body, standing out in the crowd for its swing and elasticity.

When one more fellow, however, borrowed some daring not granted, time closed. Floripes rolled up his sleeves and set off for the physical confrontation, forcing the loose between slaps and kicks.

 “This was the way that Floripes had to become respected. In the 1970s and 1980s, homophobia was even worse than it is today. It was not even a crime and this type of prejudice was legitimized in society. She might not have all the words to explain that she deserved respect. His way of reacting was this, on the basis of the violence of the oppressed. But this shows that Floripes did not accept to be subdued. That was his resistance ”, analyzes Brito.


Adson Brito, History teacher who keeps a page on the internet about memories of old Bahia, in which Floripes was remembered  (Photo: Personal collection) 
Life, death and forgetfulness
Although famous throughout Salvador, much information about Floripes is completely unknown and, therefore, permeated by doubts and mysteries. What little is known is that he was born under the name of Benito Matos and, before the transformation, he worked as a cook in popular restaurants, having also occupied functions as a washer and ironer for men's clothes.

Data on a possible marriage, the place where he was born and the whereabouts of his parents and siblings fell into complete oblivion.

The circumstances of his death are also hazy. The most widespread among the versions is that she was murdered by a handyman at the São Miguel market, in Baixa dos Sapateiros, on July 3, 1984. In the story that became public, Floripes would have played with the man and stolen a piece of the meat of your plate, in a seductive onslaught.

Irritated, the guy threw a series of punches and killed Floripes right there, in the middle of the day. Hours later, questioned by a police inspector, he reportedly said that he “knew Floripes and had nothing against her”, but that “her joy irritated”.

Floripes' second death was his almost complete erasure from history. For a personality that marked the collective imagination of an entire generation of Salvadorans, there are very few citations in newspapers, academic papers or simple mentions on the internet. A silence that does not match with such an eloquent existence.

“Rescuing Floripes' story and telling her who she was was a service that we provide to her memory. Before all the struggles against homophobia, before theories and works of tolerance, there was someone here who resisted prejudice alone and used his courage for a single right: that of simply existing. Floripes is the joy of this city ”, concludes Adson.




Transvestite Cintura Fina became a book and symbol of LGBTQIA + historical rescue

Cintura Fina (right) in a photo that is part of the book? Image: Personal archive
Jennifer Ann Thomas

Collaboration for Ecoa

02/19/2021 04h00

In the early 1950s, the arrival of a 20-year-old woman from Ceará in Belo Horizonte marked the history of the capital of Minas Gerais. Cintura Fina, as it was known, arrived became the first transvestite of great visibility in the region. The finding is from the specialist in LGBTQIA + memory and professor of Brazilian literature at the Federal University of Minas Gerais (UFMG), Luiz Morando, who launched in January the book 'Enverga, mas não broke' (O Sexo da Palavra), a biography of Slim Waist.

The inspiration for the work was a consequence of the construction of a collection of newspapers and magazines that began to be consolidated in 1989. The clippings of publications from previous decades showed the society of the time and reports from people who lived with it were the raw material for the work. In addition to telling the trajectory of Cintura Fina, the author believes that the recovery of transvestite memory is essential to create new references for new generations and include marginalized men and women in society's records.

Those who watched the soap opera Hilda Furacão, from 1998, based on the novel of the same name by Roberto Drummond, may remember the character Cintura Fina, played by Matheus Nachtergaele and inspired by the transvestite. Precisely because of the fame that accompanied it for decades, the teacher's intention is to humanize it.

Cover of the book "Bends, but does not crack" - Press Release - Press Release
Cover of the book "Enverga, but not crack"
Image: Disclosure
An emblematic figure in Belo Horizonte for almost 30 years, Cintura Fina became known for his skill with the use of the razor. Like 90% of trans and transvestite women in Brazil today, she was a sex worker. He also worked at police stations and responded to lawsuits resulting from petty crimes, such as theft and theft.

"I wanted to get her out of the mythical place where physical confrontation, life in the slums and unruly behavior were. The idea is to see what we can recognize in her as important, valuable and positive for an identity and representativeness in the LGBTQIA + segment, "he said. . In the case of Cintura Fina, Morando explains that the aggressiveness that became a trademark was the available resource to defend herself: she liked to be respected and to see others respect her feminine identity.

According to the president of the National Association of Transvestites and Transsexuals (Antra), Keila Simpson, the chronology of trans and transvestite existence does not exist. "We need to rescue avant-garde trajectories. Stories need to be told so that other people can get to know them," he said.

In Salvador, during the 1970s, Floripes was the first transvestite assumed to occupy the streets of the Bahian capital. A well-known figure among the impoverished, he suffered from the prejudice of people from the middle and upper classes of society. Like Cintura Fina, Floripes did not accept insults. If a man tried to disrespect her in any way, she would soon go to fight. At the turn of the next decade, Floripes was brutally murdered and there is little information about her history. It is known that she worked as a cook in popular restaurants, washing and ironing clothes before beginning her gender transition. However, there is no information about the city of origin of Floripes, nor about his family.

At 65, Anyky Lima is a rarity among the T community - life expectancy for transgender people is only 35 years in Brazil. Professor Morando argues that she should have her life history recorded, not only for her important role as an activist that dates back to the times of military dictatorship, when she resisted arrests and abuses.

Professor Luiz Morando, author of the book "Enverga, but not breaking" about Cintura Fina
Image: Lucas Avila

According to Morando, the invisibility of people like Cintura Fina, Floripes and Anyky is a reflection of a hygiene system established during the construction of the story. "Various social segments are not considered important within the paradigm of extolling the values ??of a certain group of people, who lead and manage society. In this sense, it is exclusive and sanitizing," he said. Another important point for the teacher is to advance in the rescue of local history in different regions and capitals of Brazil to demonstrate the variables and dimensions within the LGBTIQA + experiences that are plural. According to him, knowledge about other cases that existed in the past is a way to strengthen the trans and transvestite movement. "Dismantle the idea that these identities are new and recent elements, a fad created from the 80s until now. It is a crazy sight. On the other hand, it helps to build a richer and more diverse history ", he said.

For the president of Antra, the time gap between generations of transvestites and transsexuals allowed a revolution to happen. "We had a population identified as a transvestite, who lived with their life the way it was possible. Over time, we started to live with other identities and people demanding belonging. The range is much wider than we imagined," he said. According to Keila, any other form of being that emerges and claims its place must be supported. "We have new opportunities to study, learn and see that there is a greater spectrum than blue and pink. There are a multitude of colors that represent people. They must be seen in the way they are designated," he said.

In the case of Cintura Fina, the use of the female pronoun to refer to it is a posthumous tribute made by the author of the biography, since he had been treated as a homosexual man by the press of the time. For so many others, any tax is unthinkable. "Several died anonymously, nobody knew them. Only we, who live with them. The stories are not reported and will soon disappear," acknowledged Keila.




https://www.correio24horas.com.br/noticia/nid/a-historia-de-floripes-primeira-travesti-assumida-de-salvador-morta-de-forma-brutal/

https://www.uol.com.br/ecoa/ultimas-noticias/2021/02/19/travesti-cintura-fina-virou-livro-e-simbolo-do-resgate-historico-lgbtqia.htm
