Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-03-17T07:49:22+00:00

====== Asier (Quillacollo - 14 Mar 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 17 March 2021
@violence @unconfirmed



Asier OV
27
Quillacollo
Cochabamba
Bolivia
stabbed
trans? [the perpetrator is trans, but it's unclear whether the victim is]


Laura VH (28), a transgender woman, killed her partner Asier OV (27) with at least 14 stab wounds. This event occurred last weekend in the municipality of Quillacollo. Hours after the murder, the aggressor voluntarily turned herself in to the police.

According to the police report, the couple was consuming alcoholic beverages and had an argument, in the middle of which Laura would have repeatedly stabbed her partner,

The activist Raiza Torriani, leader of the Bolivian Trans People Network (Trebol), reported that the couple lived for a long time amid violence and jealousy, this plus the consumption of alcoholic beverages led to the murder of one of the members of the couple.

"She remembers that they began to fight, remembering that she cheated on her with her friend, in the middle of the argument she took a knife from the kitchen and injured her partner several times, until she vanished," said the activist in relation to the confession of the murder of Asier. 

He added that Laura testified that she remained seated for several hours next to her partner's body. "He thought he was alive, but when he didn't get up, he turned himself in to the police," he said.

They await the arrival of the parents

The activist from the Bolivian Trans People Network (Trebol) said that the victim's parents must arrive from Sucre, and they hope to see what actions they will take in this case. "We know that he will go to jail, we hope it will be one of women," he said.

A transsexual woman kills her partner with several stabs
The defendant would have used a knife to take the life of her partner after an argument at her home located in Quillacollo.

DRAFTING March 16, 2021 (00:00 h.)
A view of the front of the Special Force to Fight Crime (FELCC), in Cochabamba.  MARIELA COSSÍO
A view of the front of the Special Force to Fight Crime (FELCC), in Cochabamba. MARIELA COSSÍO
A young transsexual killed her partner with several stab wounds in the municipality of Quillacollo, in Cochabamba.

The departmental director of the Special Force to Fight Crime (FELCC), Rolando Rojas, pointed out that, according to the investigations, the couple, aged 27 and 28, consumed alcoholic beverages in their home when they began to argue allegedly out of jealousy. .


The trans woman took a knife and caused several injuries to her body, causing her death. She was repentant and not only reported the incident to the police, but also turned herself in and declared herself the author of the crime, this Sunday.

The Quillacollo police officers went to the private home and found the man dead. The body was transferred to the Institute of Forensic Investigations (IDIF) so that the experts can determine precisely the causes of death.

The alleged author is in police cells awaiting her hearing on precautionary measures, where a precautionary judge will define her legal situation.

DATA

It is the first case where the perpetrator of a murder is a transsexual woman, but a mortal victim with the same gender identity was registered. Alessandra, a young trans woman, was found dead in the room of a central accommodation in Cochabamba on February 6. According to the investigations, the victim, who was a sex worker, received a client on the afternoon of February 5, who entered without presenting any identification document.

The next day, her colleagues asked the administrator to open the room because she did not respond to the door or calls. They found her lifeless with the cord of a hair straightener wrapped around her neck, with which she would have been suffocated. The Police continue with the investigations to find the perpetrator of the crime.



https://www.opinion.com.bo/articulo/policial/mujer-transexual-mata-varias-punaladas-concubino/20210315234017811772.html

https://www.lostiempos.com/actualidad/pais/20210316/trans-mata-su-pareja-14-punaladas-luego-se-entrega-policia
