Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-05-05T21:04:43+01:00

====== Isidora (La Cisterna - 3 May 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 05 May 2021
@unconfirmed @violence



Isidora
26
3 May 2021
Américo Vespucio
La Cisterna
Santiago Metro
Chile
survived?


On Wednesday morning, and outside the Hospital del Salvador, authorities met to provide details on a new case of assault with a firearm against a transgender sex worker in the commune of La Cisterna.

In the instance was the Undersecretary of Crime Prevention, Katherine Martorell, Isabel Amor, the Executive Director of Fundación Iguales, Alejandra Soto, of the Amanda Jofré Organization, who repudiated the fact and called it a hate crime.

As reported by the Armanda Jofré Sex Workers Union, the incident occurred last Monday at 8:00 p.m. in La Cisterna when at least two people who were mobilizing in a car fired a shotgun-type firearm at a group of men. six workers.


Prosecutor's Office investigates a complaint of a sex worker who was shot from a car in La Cisterna
Isidora, 26, was the one who was most affected since she was shot in the face and body , for which she was helped by her companions and transferred to the emergency care center.

“The reason is because of an attack of hatred (…) they shot him to death,” emphasized Alejandra Soto, president of the Armanda Jofré Sex Workers Union.

The director of Fundación Iguales, Isabel Amor, commented that “we are facing a situation in which we realize the great vulnerability that trans people and women have in Chile . It is important to think that this is not an isolated case. We don't want any more laws with names ”.

In addition, the union claims that since January there have been at least 15 cases of hate attacks against members of the organization. "We are threatened by various groups," Soto said.

For her part, the Undersecretary for Crime Prevention, Katherine Martorell, commented that in the face of these attacks, a survey was conducted of sexual diversities on their current situation. “We did not have any type of survey or effective data to show us what the hate crime situation was. People have suffered violence in 80% of the cases, where 50% have suffered it on the street, "said Martorell.

Meanwhile, the latest medical reports stated that the victim remains hospitalized with possible loss of one of his eyes due to the shooting against him.


Transphobia: woman victim of brutal attack is seriously hospitalized

From April 20 to date, there have been three acts of violence against people from the trans community.
On Monday afternoon, in the Américo Vespucio sector, an assault occurred on a trans woman. This fact was denounced by the Union of Transsexual and Transvestite Sex Workers Amanda Jofré, where they point out that the woman received more than 100 pellets on her face and body. In addition, she lost teeth and his vision is compromised. As a result she was admitted to the Hospital del Salvador [in Providencia, Región Metropolitana] in a serious condition.

It should be noted that on April 22, the union also denounced another act of violence, where the sex worker and activist of Amanda Jofré, Canela Inbenjamin, along with two other women, were also beaten in the Américo Vespucio sector.

"Sex work is the main source of income for our community and its lack of regulation causes these acts of violence, pimping and even human trafficking," they point out from the union.

In short, in these situations, on April 20, women were also brutally beaten. Given this, the organization asked the Undersecretary for Crime Prevention for help, however, they complain that they have not received a response to date.

https://www.biobiochile.cl/noticias/nacional/region-metropolitana/2021/05/05/le-tiraron-a-matar-organizaciones-repudiaron-ataque-con-escopeta-a-mujer-trans-en-la-cisterna.shtml

https://www.elmostrador.cl/braga/2021/05/05/transfobia-mujer-victima-de-brutal-ataque-se-encuentra-internada-de-gravedad/

https://www.24horas.cl/nacional/martorell-por-ataque-a-persona-trans-no-podemos-permitirnos-este-tipo-de-acciones-4766832
