Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-14T16:48:43+01:00

====== Jennifer M (Jujuy - 11 Apr 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 14 April 2021
@violence @unconfirmed



Jeniffer M. [Rocío Jeniffer M .]
21
11 Apr 2021
San Pedro de Jujuy
Argentina
stabbed (survived?)



There is one arrested for the violent attack on Rocío
April 14, 2021 - 01:02 The professionals managed to save the young woman's arm that was practically separated from the body.

There is one arrested for the violent attack on Rocío
GUARDIA DEL PATERSON / WHERE SHE WAS INTERESTED AND THE DOCTORS INTERVENED HER SUCCESSFULLY AND SAVED HER ARM.
After an arduous work carried out in the rural area of ​​El Lobatón and other parts of the San Pedro department, days ago the Police proceeded to arrest a male person, who was involved in the savage attack perpetrated on the young transgender Rocío Jeniffer M . (twenty-one).

Data collected by our newspaper allowed us to know that yesterday and after being subjected to several interventions, the victim woke up and was able to speak with the Police.

It is presumed that he provided important data that mobilized a police commission, headed by assistant prosecutor Matías Mora, to the rural area of ​​El Lobatón, where they carried out raids and searches.

Although the identity of the alleged defendant was not provided, it was learned that he was left behind bars at the disposal of the Justice and that the Special Prosecutor's Office for Gender and Sexual Violence in charge of the prosecutor José Alfredo Blanco has already intervened.

On the other hand, it was reported that the professionals who assisted the young woman, after several surgical interventions, were able to save one of her arms, where the subject gave deep cuts, and fortunately, he did not suffer amputation.

It is estimated that the fact that shocked the Sampedreña community, due to the magnitude of the violence exerted on the young woman, will be clarified in the coming days.

On the facts

As reported by our newspaper, the incident occurred at dawn on Sunday in an open field located in front of 15 hectares, where a 21-year-old trans woman was brutally attacked with machetes by a subject causing serious injuries to the head, arms and other parts of the body.

The aggressor had forced her to have free sex and it is presumed that such request triggered an argument and it was in the meantime that the vandal took out a large knife and surprisingly began to attack her, causing injuries to the head, both arms and others . body parts.

After the attack, the vandal fled, leaving the woman lying and bleeding. With the little breath she had left, the young woman was able to get to the house of a friend, located in a neighborhood near the scene, who, horrified to see her all bloody, alerted the police.





A trans woman was brutally attacked by a subject at dawn today in an area of ​​15 hectares, causing serious injuries to the head, arms and other parts of the body.

It was learned that in the absence of a surgeon in the Sampedreño hospital, the victim had to be referred urgently to the Pablo Soria hospital in the provincial capital. 

Unofficial sources indicated that the unfortunate event occurred in the area called 15 hectares, located in the southeastern part of the city.

Although no further data was provided, it was learned that the woman identified as EM (21) was on the street when, under circumstances that were not specified, a male subject, not yet identified by the police, began to attack her and surprisingly He grabbed a machete causing injuries to his head, both arms and other parts of his body.

After the attack, the victim was taken to a home located in a nearby neighborhood, where he continued to lose abundant blood, so the police were immediately alerted.

Upon arrival at the scene, the uniformed officers found the woman bloody, with numerous injuries, for which the presence of an ambulance from Same was requested, and due to lack of a mobile unit, assistance was delayed. Moments later it was learned that ambulances are transferring COVID-19 patients and have to be disinfected before leaving for a service again. Upon arrival at the Páterson hospital, medical professionals were on duty, provided the first care and then requested an urgent referral to a health center in the provincial capital, due to the lack of a surgeon and the serious injuries that he presented.


A brutal attempt at transfemicide took place in an open field in the city of San Pedro de Jujuy, where a trans woman apparently wanted to charge for the sexual services provided to a young man in those darkness, when he reacted in an insane way and the attacked with a machete. Enduring the brutal aggression, the 25-year-old trans woman managed to flee from the aggressor's fury and ask for help at a nearby home.

According to police reports, the victim suffered serious stab injuries to his arms and stab wounds to the head and other parts of the body.

The brutal attack took place in the early hours of Sunday, in an open area, near a lot called 15 hectares.

The young trans woman was assisted by private individuals and was transferred bloodied to the San Pedro de Jujuy hospital and, in the absence of a surgeon in the hospital, the victim had to be referred to the Pablo Soria hospital in the neighboring provincial capital, in serious condition.


Woman in serious condition after being attacked with a machete
April 12, 2021 - 01:04 A man violently assaulted her, causing cutting wounds to the head and other parts of the body. The police were alerted by a friend of the victim and rushed to the guard at the "Guillermo Paterson" hospital.

Woman in serious condition after being attacked with a machete
EMERGENCY GUARD / WHERE A WOMAN ARRIVED IN THE EARLY MORNING WITH SERIOUS INJURIES IN DIFFERENT PARTS OF THE BODY.
A trans woman was brutally attacked with machetes by a subject at dawn yesterday in an open area, close to 15 hectares, causing serious injuries to the head, arms and other parts of the body.

It was learned that in the absence of a surgeon in the Sampedreño hospital, the victim had to be referred urgently to the "Pablo Soria" hospital in the provincial capital, where it was reported that his condition is serious due to the injuries he presented.

Unofficial sources indicated that the unfortunate event occurred in a sector close to 15 hectares, located in the southeastern strip of the city.

Although no further information was provided, it was learned that the victim, identified as Rocío M. (21), was approached by a subject, between Walterio Leach streets, Hipólito Yrigoyen avenue and Bolivia, who took her to the aforementioned place.

At a certain moment, the subject, not yet identified by the Police, had forced her to have free sex and it is presumed that such a request triggered an argument and it was in the meantime that the subject took out a large knife, and surprisingly He began to attack her causing injuries to the head, both arms and other parts of the body.

After the attack, the vandal fled, leaving the woman lying and bleeding. With the little breath she had left, the young woman was able to get to the house of a friend, located in a neighborhood near the scene of the event, and horrified to see the state of the victim all bloodied, she alerted the police.

Upon arriving at the scene, the uniformed officers confirmed the presence of a woman with serious cutting injuries, urgently requesting the presence of an ambulance from Same. The delay that Same staff had in arriving caused discomfort in the people, and moments later it was learned that the ambulances, when transferring Covid-19 patients, have to be disinfected before leaving for a service again.

Upon arriving at the Paterson hospital, medical professionals who were on duty, provided the first care and in the absence of a surgeon and due to the serious injuries he presented, they requested an urgent referral to a health center in the provincial capital, where it was learned, the medical report gave an account of the critical condition that he presented due to the injuries suffered.

The primary proceedings entitled "wound with a knife" are in charge of the 48th Section of the Patricios neighborhood, and it was learned that the place where the violent attack occurred would correspond to the 25th Section of La Esperanza.


https://www.eltribuno.com/jujuy/nota/2021-4-14-1-0-0-hay-un-arrestado-por-la-violenta-agresion-a-rocio

https://www.eltribuno.com/salta/nota/2021-4-12-0-0-0-ataco-a-machetazos-a-una-trans-porque-quiso-cobrar-el-servicio-sexual

https://www.eltribuno.com/jujuy/nota/2021-4-12-1-0-0-mujer-en-grave-estado-tras-ser-atacada-con-un-machete

https://www.laizquierdadiario.com/Brutal-ataque-a-mujer-trans-en-Jujuy

https://www.eltribuno.com/jujuy/nota/2021-4-11-12-43-0-brutal-ataque-con-arma-blanca-a-una-mujer-trans
