Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-28T21:06:37+01:00

====== Samuele De Paoli (Perugia - 28 Apr 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 28 April 2021
@violence @unconfirmed




Samuele De Paoli
22
28 Apr 2021
Perugia
Italy
not reported 
[don't think the victim was trans, but hold on file for now]




> It is a mystery in Perugia, a corpse found in the middle of a field in Sant'Andrea delle Fratte
> The Scientific Police together with the Flying Squad are investigating the find. No hypothesis is excluded
> 
> This morning the body of a man, now lifeless, lying on his back and left on a field, was reported to the police . The area is that of Sant'Andrea delle Fratte in Perugia. It is assumed that the deceased may be aged between 30-40 years. The Public Prosecutor Giuseppe Petrazzini, the Polizia and the forensic department and the coroner arrived on the spot. At the moment it is impossible to rule out any leads, including that of the murder. From a first reconstruction the victim would not wear clothes. 
> 
> THE POINT OF THE DAY ON MURDER (READ HERE ALL THE UPDATES, THE SUMMARY PIECE)
> 
> Sant'Andrea delle Fratte, is a mystery about the death of the young Samuel: naked, in a ditch. The car found with the seats down
> UPDATE 11.49 AM - The alarm was raised by a man who was taking a morning jog in this countryside area of ​​Perugia - Strada Battifoglia - when he came across a red utility car - a Panda - with the doors open. A short distance away he noticed the body of a man lying upside down in a ditch in the agricultural field. There is official confirmation: the man was found completely naked. Maximum confidentiality on the part of the investigators but the murder hypothesis is slowly taking shape even if there are no certainties. The coroner is carrying out the first cadaveric inspection to identify any injuries compatible with a form of assault. 
> 
> UPDATE AT 12.02 - The victim has been identified but at the moment the Police prefers not to give the personal details pending having made all the checks and possibly warned the family. However, there are two confirmations: the victim would be just over twenty years old (22 years old) and would be resident in the province of Perugia, in a municipality not far from the Umbrian capital. Official confirmations are awaited. The scientific police inspected the vehicle - a Red Panda - and the surrounding area, managing to isolate several objects that have been seized and will be analyzed in the laboratories. 
> 
> VIDEO Perugia, boy found dead in a ditch
> UPDATE AT 12.30 -This morning the red Panda, with the doors open, had also been noticed by at least two other people, as well as by the man who raised the alarm after discovering the body in the ditch adjacent to the Battifoglia road and agricultural land. The Flying Squad has begun to listen to some alleged witnesses. From what we learn, on the spot, a Perugian owner of a plot of land where he raises some animals early this morning saw the red Panda but did not notice the body of the young man who was already in the drainage ditch. His dog, on the other hand, as reported by the investigators, was restless all the time and was pointing right towards the young man's car, most likely he had smelled the body. None of the witnesses currently heard have noticed other people moving on the scene of the discovery of the body. A hypothesis of the time of death of the 22-year-old has not been disclosed at the moment. 
> 
> UPDATE AT 15.00 - The death of the 22-year-old Umbrian whose body was discovered this morning in a ditch in a field adjacent to the Battifoglia road in Sant'Andrea delle Fratte in Perugia is a real mystery. On the body, according to some earlier rumors that emerged during the cadaveric inspection on the spot, there are no cuts and bullet wounds and there would be no suspicious holes. The only oddity: some abrasions on the neck. Obviously they are not the cause of death but they could be signs that demonstrate an assault. But at this point the causes of death can only be revealed by the autopsy.
> 
> The road in question is often a destination for having sexual encounters even for a fee - //the San Sisto area is close to where especially trans and some prostitutes work// - or to find refuge to consume doses of drugs. Investigators are also hitting this trail. On the presumed time of death: there are no certainties and video cameras are being examined along this path. From the stiffening of the body, the death occurred at least 12-13 hours before the discovery in the ditch by a lover of the morning run. A picture so uncertain that it forces us to explore all possible ways. Murder is not the privileged path, even if the most suggestive one. 
> 
> UPDATE AT 15.30 - The 22-year-old found dead in Santr'Andrea delle Fratte was Samuele de Paoli, 22, resident of Bastia Umbra, had completed high school in Perugia at Itis Volta. A past as a footballer with the junior team of his city. He worked as an electrician for a company. 


> Yellow in Perugia: in the Battifoglia street, Samuele De Paoli, an electrician from Bastia, was found dead
> April 28, 2021
> 26
> Samuele De Paoli - ph profile fb
> It is yellow in Perugia where the lifeless body of Samuele De Paoli, 22 years old from Bastia Umbra, was found. The boy was found naked in Battifoglia street in Sant'Andrea delle Fratte, behind the circle of Perugina employees. Samuele's body was sprawled and abandoned in the middle of the fields, next to a red Fiat Panda. The small car was parked on the dirt road that skirts the ditch where the victim was lying, on his back.
> 
> The case was entrusted to the prosecutor Giuseppe Petrazzini. Investigate the State Police under the orders of Gianluca Boiano. The Carabinieri were also present. The macabre discovery was made by a person who was jogging. The area where the body was found is often used for seclusion and having sex for a fee. About a hundred meters away, there is also an uninhabited cottage and nearby is via Sandro Penna where trans people often find themselves. From what has been learned about the body there would be signs of a struggle. Maximum confidentiality on the part of the investigators, but at the moment it seems that it is a suspected murder.
> 
> Samuele De Paoli, 22, residing in Bastia Umbra, had completed high school in Perugia at Itis Volta. A past as a footballer with his hometown junior team, the victim worked as an electrician for a firm.

https://corrieredellumbria.corr.it/news/umbria/27058887/perugia-ragazzo-trovato-morto-trans-questura-perugia.html

 https://www.laprimapagina.it/2021/04/28/giallo-a-perugia-in-strada-battifoglia-trovato-morto-samuele-de-paoli-elettricista-di-bastia/

https://www.perugiatoday.it/cronaca/perugia-giovane-22-anni-morto-santandrea-delle-fratte-indagini-28-aprile-2021.html
