Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-06-01T08:03:19+01:00

====== Valentina Hernandez Urueta (Catagena - 31 May 2021) ======
Created Tuesday 01 June 2021
@violence @unconfirmed


Valentina Hernández Urueta
31 May 2021
Cartagena
Colombia
run over (survived?)



They ran over and dragged a trans woman in front of a CAI in Cartagena
SC
Cartagena  May 31, 2021, 12:54 PM
The authorities in Cartagena are investigating an alleged case of transphobia in which a young transsexual was run over in the vicinity of the Historic Center last Friday night.

The victim is Valentina Hernández Urueta, who was dragged several meters by a white Mazda with JHV-917 plates.

She is part of a group of the transsexual community that meets at night in front of the Manglar Spirit Park. (In addition:  Coastal erosion and floods threaten the Bajo Baudo Chocoano)

In dialogue with EL TIEMPO, Rafael Hernández, the victim's father, said that in the early hours of Saturday they called him to inform him that his daughter was in a hospital as a result of the brutal attack.

According to the relatives of the victim, three men were in a state of intoxication in the car and when they saw the young woman in the middle of the road they ran her over, brutally and in a clear attack of transphobia.

The vehicle was driven by Juan Camilo Ruiz Baiz and the incident occurred in the middle of Pedro de Heredia Avenue, in front of the Chambacú Police Station. (More news:  Cartagena has transferred 24 covid patients to Barranquilla)

"He is conscious but says that his head and his whole body hurt a lot from the blows he received," says Rafael Hernández.

The sketch of the scene shows that the young woman was dragged by the car for several meters.

Although the victim's companions demanded the breathalyzer test, it was not done at the point of the accident. 

(Also:  They denounce alleged sexual abuse against a protester in Soledad)

The young woman's family assures that she has no enemies.

"The front glass broke the hood also has signs of what the assault was. When my daughter falls to the ground she drips blood from her nose and ears. The doctor who treats her told my wife that she will have other tests tomorrow. deep to determine his condition and to be able to diagnose with greater certainty the possible consequences, "said the victim's father.

"We do not understand why the breathalyzer test was not done at the scene, if it was evident that the guys were drunk," adds the father of the victim. (It may interest you:  The protest activities for this May 31 in Medellín)

CARTAGENA

More news in Colombia 
The reasons why teacher unemployment continues in the Atlantic

They denounce that a bitch was given ground glass in Riohacha


https://www.eltiempo.com/colombia/otras-ciudades/atropellaron-y-arrastraron-a-mujer-trans-frente-a-un-cai-de-cartagena-592455

https://twitter.com/PilotodeCometas/status/1399363722380992512
