Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-07T08:29:02+01:00

====== Victor Edgar N (Atlixco - 19 Mar 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 07 April 2021
@violence @unconfirmed



Victor Edgar N
41
19 Mar 2021
Atlixco
Puebla
Mexico
murdered (trans?)

They fire Victor, victim of a hate crime in Atlixco
Photo / Angelina Bueno
Only family and friends were present at the funeral
By Angelina Bueno | Friday, March 26, 2021 | Photo / Angelina Bueno
The gates of the parish of the Guadalupe Victoria neighborhood, south of the city of Atlixco , were opened to receive the remains of Víctor Edgar N. and make the corresponding funeral, despite the fact that the call was made on social networks , only relatives and friends gave him the last goodbye.

The religious act began without the body, it was minutes later when the hearse arrived, the funeral home employees lowered the coffin covered with adhesive plastic as one of the Covid-19 prevention measures and placed it in the center in front of the altar.

The 20 people who were inside the temple received him and later he was buried in the municipal pantheon of Mártir de Chinameca in the auxiliary board of Axocopan .

The death of Víctor virtually raised the anger of the Atlixquense society, the inhabitants of this municipality expressed from the keyboard of their devices their concern about this type of crimes , especially because it is an iconic character of the tianguis and the municipal markets where they assured, everyone loved him, respected him because he was always a pleasant and very sociable person, however, in his last goodbye they were not present.

On the other hand, this death served to make the call by the LGBTTTIQ + community in Atlixco, specifically in the group called " Fuerza Diverza ", who a day ago issued a statement condemning this crime committed against a member of the community .

“Hopefully this is a wake-up call not only for the authorities to work on inclusion issues, but for the whole of society to sensitize ourselves to the issue of sexual diversity and learn to be tolerant and respect differences. No to violence in all its forms! No to hate crimes! No to homo-lesbo-transphobia! ", Reads the publication on social networks .

Víctor Edgar, 41 years old, was found dead last Friday, March 19, in one of the loneliest walkers on the Cerro de San Miguel . An athlete found him in the morning, but it was until noon that the finding was made public and his identity was known until Sunday, when members of the LGBTTTIQ + community in this city demanded punishment for an alleged perpetrator.

This is the second crime committed against people belonging to this group of society in Atlixco , in October 2020 the case of Samantha was known , who was run over not once, but twice by her murderer , her case was stipulated as femicide , for Victor his friends request the hate crime.

In the Atlixco region , hate crimes are not a constant, but when they happen they arouse the outrage of citizens. From the Agnes Torres case , a transsexual activist and a young man who died at the hands of his sentimental partner in Chipilo in 2013.

Until that of Antonio Casabal , who was murdered in an area of the municipality of Huaquechula and his body abandoned on a dirt road in October 2018, since this date no other murder of this type has been registered; then Samantha happened and now in 2021 Victor was murdered.


https://www.e-consulta.com/nota/2021-03-26/municipios/despiden-victor-victima-de-un-crimen-de-odio-en-atlixco
