Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-07-21T08:25:57+01:00

====== Fatima Belen (Formosa - 18 Jul 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 21 July 2021
@custodial



Fátima Belén
29
2021_07_18_Fatima_Belen.jpg
https://www.diariopinion.com.ar/noticias/2021/07/20/36775-la-madre-de-fatima-asegura-que-su-hija-estaba-bien-y-que-la-mato-la-policia
18 Jul 2021
Fontana
Guadalupe
Formosa
Formosa
Argentina
-26.1823745,-58.1936517
died in custody


Fátima Belén died in custody in suspicious circumstances in Formosa (Argentina) on 18 Jul 2021.

She was 29.



On Sunday, July 18, at 7 a.m., the 29-year-old trans woman, Fatima Belén, died at the Guadalupe neighborhood police station.

Fatima Bethlehem had been arrested by the police at a rental, after receiving a call from neighbours for hearing disturbances in her home. In the first instance, she was taken to the coroner, where according to official accounts she had attacked the doctor, which is why she was taken back to the police station. It is there that he suffers a decompensation, and without specifying the time elapsed, the uniformed men resort to SIPEC, but unfortunately at the time of their arrival, Fatima no longer showed vital signs.

Faced with the uncertainty of the cause of death, loved ones and different organizations were summoned to the subcommission and with the presence of the mother, a press conference was held where she declared: "They told me that my daughter died, that she died of an overdose but before they told me that she was doing the challenge, that she did not want to give her the data of her , I'm sure she was beaten to death." The mother concludes by calling for justice for Fatima and alluding to the responsibility of the police for her daughter's death. To this statement, is added the sayings of a friend, who was in the social meeting with her and sees when the officers take her from the rent: «Fatima left without any blow, and in the drawer she had her forehead flattened».

In Formosa we have to mourn a new death of a trans woman and at the hands of the police of Insfrán, who already has to her credit several transgressions, deaths of minors, and cover-ups of hate crimes as was the case of Erika Rojas in 2016, which was "resolved" covered with doubts between the actions of the police and justice. For this reason, in the eye of the storm, with the death of Fatima Bethlehem, he finds himself again in the police.

We demand the urgent clarification of the case. We ask for justice for Fatima Bethlehem. No more hate crimes.



Fatima's mother says her daughter was fine and that the police killed her

Relatives and friends of Fátima Belén, the 29-year-old trans woman who died on Sunday in barrio Guadalupe of an alleged “overdose”, called on themselves in the area to demand justice and that the incident be investigated in depth.

It is worth saying that, according to the Police, the victim while intoxicated carried out incidents with another person in a tenancy in the Fontana neighborhood; After being delayed, they were taken to the police forensic where "one of them tried to attack the doctor" and when they were taken back to the unit for the preparation of pertinent actions, she suffered a decompensation being assisted by medical personnel from SIPEC who reported that she was without Vital signs.

Matilde Bogado, mother of the young woman, told through tears that “I have a lot of pain; Yesterday I came to the Sub-police station to find out about it and they didn't take good care of me, they just told me that my daughter died of an overdose. I told them that I knew very well that they beat my daughter to death ”.

"They handed her to me with blows to the body, they broke her forehead, she has a scrape, marks on her nose, leg and shoulder," he agreed.

“I have many witnesses who say that they brought her well to the Commissioner, that she was afraid. I had been without sleep for four days. They didn't even take her to the hospital ", Bogado confided and launched:" I'm sure the police killed my daughter, "he said.

“My lawyer maintains that it is a doubtful death; They gave me the file number, I told the Commissioner that my daughter died here, that there are witnesses who say they beat her, he replied that this is not true and that they had her in the guard and it was there that she broke down. We are going to ask another force to investigate and to rename the cause of doubtful death because my daughter had many blows, "said the woman.

“At the autopsy he doesn't say anything, they just gave me the death certificate. the policemen who took me to the morgue did not want me to speak to the forensic doctor, I felt bad, and they did not let me get out of the truck to speak with the professional, "he said.

For his part, Edgardo - a friend of Fatima who saw her last alive - related: “she suddenly began to feel bad and screamed, when the police came they grabbed her between two and lifted her to the truck. She came without any blow, not even half an hour passed and then we found out that she died ”.

Next, he himself assured that the body of his friend presented blows "that he did not have before leaving the apartment."
When asked about the blows, he asserted: "He had scrapes on his knees and blows on his head and on different parts of his body."
"When they informed us of her death we could not believe because she was fine when they took her away," he added.

Judge Dr. Marcelo López Picabea indicated that the incident is under investigation and that they await the results of the expert reports. He also added that "on the judicial side there is no precautionary measure."

"We have to wait for the expertise and samples that this week will be sent to Corrientes," he said.

Asked if there are separate police personnel, he replied that "on the part of the Justice there is no resolution, nor a precautionary one, because we have nothing that warrants it yet based on what we are investigating, I do not know if internally the Police have taken measures."

According to the police report, minutes before 7 a.m. on Sunday, personnel from the Guadalupe neighborhood Sub-Police Station and from Zone 3 of the Radioelectric Command attended a police request for disorder in a rental complex located on the street. Maipú al 2000 from the Fontana neighborhood of this city.

At the scene, the police proceeded to apprehend two trans women who were causing disorder in an evident state of drunkenness, one of them expressing that they were ingesting alcoholic beverages, narcotics and pills, until at one point her friend got upset and began to yell, fight and cause damage to the property and a vehicle owned by the owner of the rental complex, being transferred first to the police headquarters and later to the coroner where after being examined, the victim tried to attack the medical professional, reason for which they were transferred back to the police headquarters for the pertinent legal purposes.

Once at the police headquarters, one of them suffered a decompensation, consequently requesting the assistance of the SIPEC doctors who, upon arriving and examining the young woman, reported that she was without vital signs.

https://prensaobrera.com/lgbti/formosa-fatima-belen-joven-trans-muere-en-una-comisaria/

https://www.nortehoy.com/familiares-y-amigos-de-fatima-belen-la-joven-trans-que-fallecio-en-subcomisaria-reclamaron-justicia/

https://www.diariopinion.com.ar/noticias/2021/07/20/36775-la-madre-de-fatima-asegura-que-su-hija-estaba-bien-y-que-la-mato-la-policia

https://www.elcomercial.com.ar/9315-la-justicia-investiga-el-deceso-de-una-persona-en-la-subcomisaria-guadalupe
