Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-02-12T08:58:45+00:00

====== Lucho Avila (Los Hornos - 1 Feb 2021) ======
Created Friday 12 February 2021
@custodial



Lucho Ávila
25
1 Feb 2021
Los Hornos
Buenos Aires
Argentina
died in custody


Lucho Ávila died in custody in Los Hornos, Buenos Aires (Argentina) on 1 Feb 2021.

He was 25.



The suicide of a trans man causes a commotion in Los Hornos
Lucho Ávila was barely 25 years old and was primary: it was his first time in a prison. He had been a prisoner for 2 years and 6 months in a cis women's prison, processed without conviction or expectation of trial, for an alleged crime of possession of drugs for commercialization. He suffered from panic attacks, and after being punished in a practice known as 'mailbox', he committed suicide. Her companions ask for justice.
By Mariana Sidoti

"I wanted to provide information about what is happening in the women's prison No. 33 of Los Hornos, this time it is not an inmate dance," reads a text posted by inmates on different walls and Facebook groups. Despite the fact that this Penitentiary Unit made the news months ago for a reggaeton dance starring women deprived of their liberty and agents of the Buenos Aires Penitentiary Service (SPB), the silence in the national media was overwhelming after the suicide of Lucho Ávila, on Monday 1 February. In fact the news barely transcended social networks. According to her companions and as revealed by the Provincial Commission for Memory (CPM), Lucho, 25, suffered from panic attacks. And although there are conflicting versions about how it was that he got to the mailbox - a practice of prison punishment that consists of total isolation - the truth is that on Saturday, January 30, the confinement intensified despite his medical condition. Two days later Lucho hanged himself with some sheets, around 11 in the morning. Although CPR maneuvers were performed and he was transferred to a health unit, he died on the way.

"He was not a violent person, he did not consume drugs, we always played sports and each one had her job," Camila, her political cousin and friend, also detained in that unit, told SOY. Like other of her classmates, who preferred not to reveal her identity, the pronouns she uses to talk about Lucho vary and change randomly as the talk progresses. “I talked to him a lot, he said he was tired for the cause: he went two years and six months without a sentence, I was one year and four months the same. He always spoke to her and told her to defend her innocence. He was a super educated and average person who had gotten used to being here, instead of fighting for his innocence, "he said. Born and raised in Lanús, Lucho was in custody with preventive detention for an alleged violation of the Narcotics Law, more precisely for possession of drugs for commercialization. According to CELS data updated to 2017, in women's prisons 43.6% of detainees are imprisoned for this reason.

BINARISM IN PRISON

“In the stories it appears that he was actually doing a psychological and psychiatric treatment, we are aware of that. Every week there was a situation that they were addressing, ”Antonella Mirenghi, director of Inspections in places of confinement in the Committee against Torture of the CPM, told SOY. Like Camila, the official noticed that Lucho had been asking to work in an area other than the one assigned to him by the SPB: “He was very tired because of this issue, since he was supposedly given tasks for men. Carrying heavy bags of potatoes or meat, a very masculinized task. And he didn't like that, he felt bad. But beyond that, the important thing is: how do you take a person who has been undergoing psychological and psychiatric treatment for panic attacks to a place of punishment like that? "

The lawyer described the mailboxes as “practically a place prepared to kill oneself: the 24-hour confinement in a perverse and dark place, where you can see how the system 'invites you', so to speak. Regarding the approach to suicide prevention, although there is a protocol, the reality is that it is not applied ”. Although he clarified that UP No. 33, unlike other prisons, does not tend to have overmedicalization practices, "yes, there is a lack of care," as in most prisons.

But Lucho's incarceration is questionable not only from a prison point of view but also because of his gender identity and expression. The SPB guaranteed her hormones from the first moment, but beyond that, other policies aimed at the rest of the detainees or the SPB personnel to guarantee effective compliance with the Gender Identity law remain in the pipeline. In fact, even the official part of his death identifies him with his name assigned at birth. “Trans men for the SPB appear as a kind of novelty, which obviously they are not, but they are beginning to be more visible. There is a whole issue with accommodation in women's prisons, which is totally binary because a trans man ends up in a women's prison and trans femininity in a men's prison, ”Mirenghi said.

Prisons were from the beginning designed for cis men, so even women's prisons are far from meeting the basic needs of their inhabitants. Cisexism intensifies when the rest of the conditions - material, symbolic - accompany it. "As there are no real and comprehensive public policies for trans people or transvestites, there is a deficit in the prison system, the policies are not enough or are null," said the CPM official. And it is that just as trans women continue to be placed (in differentiated wards) in prisons for men, trans men are practically all housed in prisons for women. According to the first survey of Living Conditions of the trans / transvestite population of the province of Buenos Aires, coordinated by Alan Otto Prieto in 2019, the conditions in which the population deprived of their liberty lives are “truly alarming”: 69% of the surveyed population does not have access to work within the penitentiary units; and although 85% express the desire to complete their studies, only 14.3% have access to education while deprived of their liberty. For the detained trans-transvestite people, “the exclusion and imprisonment did not begin the first day they stepped on a prison, but much earlier: more than 65% of the people surveyed were expelled from their home before the age of 17. Of this population, 50% were expelled from their home for reasons related to their gender identity and / or expression and 28.6% lost some formal job for the same reason ”. Lucho had completed high school, and both he and his girlfriend -also arrested- planned to sign up for the legal profession. He did not arrive.

DEVICES THAT DO NOT REACH

“Just at 3:00 a.m. an inmate from Ward 2 called us and told us that Lucho had arrived dead at the hospital. Meanwhile, his mother was arriving in La Plata without knowing that he was dead. He was inhuman, the boss did not show his face at any time, "said Camila, outraged at having found out about what had happened to her cousin. “He had no problems with anyone, he was a hardworking and educated person, even the managers were surprised. He had never had problems of violence with anyone, he had an impeccable behavior, "added the woman. As SOY learned, the punishment had been imposed after an argument with his girlfriend. SPB sources denied that there had been a history of claustrophobia or panic attacks, contrary to what their fellow prisoners and the CPM inspector said. And they assured that Lucho was a "very dear" person, both by his companions and by the prison staff, and that his death affected everyone. They also highlighted that since the change in management, a Dialogue Table has been carried out with representatives of the pavilions, prison authorities and personnel from the Buenos Aires Ministry of Justice and Human Rights to discuss different issues, especially as a result of the pandemic. After learning about this case, SOY accessed one of the official documents of the SPB which lists the warning signs or indications that a person could be thinking of taking their own life. In the text, which seeks to strengthen the interventions for the prevention and approach of suicidal and self-injurious behaviors in a confinement context, there are the guidelines of the protocol to prevent cases like this. However, also according to SPB sources, in Lucho “this type of behavior had not been detected”. From the Penitentiary Service they highlighted the enormous problem of overcrowding that Buenos Aires prisons face - the system is prepared for 28 thousand people and there are more than 40 thousand - and what that implies in the lack of infrastructure, added to the strong implication that thede-federalization of the crime of selling narcotics (which, if possible, filled the crowded pavilions even more). The rights of trans people, in this precarious framework, are doubly violated, starting with the accommodation spaces and the daily treatment (intentionally or involuntarily transphobic) that they receive from others.

Lucho's death is being investigated by the prosecutor Juan Cruz Condomí Alcorta, at the head of the UFI No. 16 of the La Plata judicial department. The CPM, as it does with every death that occurs in confinement contexts, requested that certain tests be carried out in the autopsy and the medical history be taken into account, since since it is a death that occurred under state supervision, the investigation must always be oriented to that effect. SOY spoke with several of Lucho's companions in prison, although only Camila agreed to make her testimony public. Another of them, through a conversation on Facebook, asked for just one favor: "Let it be known that Lucho took his life without even having been convicted." 

https://www.pagina12.com.ar/322729-el-suicidio-de-un-hombre-trans-causa-conmocion-en-los-hornos
