Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-11-22T22:20:26+00:00

====== Name Unknown (Viana - 21 Oct 2021) ======
Created Monday 22 November 2021
@custodial




Name Unknown
21 Oct 2021
Penitenciária de Segurança Média II (PSME II)
Viana
Espírito Santo
Brazil
-20.3771841,-40.5057516
custodial/strangled and hanged




Family of Woman Killed in Prison Files Action Against the State Government
Murder took place in a prison for the LGBT+ community. family claims moral and material damages

Elaine Dal Gobbo 11/21/2021 08:40 | Updated 11/22/2021 12:04 PM

The family of an inmate claims compensation for moral and material damages against the state government for the murder of her daughter, a transgender woman who was serving a sentence in the Medium Security Penitentiary II (PSME II), destined for LGBTI+ prisoners. The victim was killed on Oct. 21 by a cellmate, who had the help of two other inmates to commit the crime. 

The family seeks compensation for moral damages in the amount of R$ 100,000, in addition to material damages in the amount of 1/3 of the minimum wage up to the victim's average life expectancy, which according to the Brazilian Institute of Geography and Statistics ( IBGE), she was 76 years old, or until the applicant's death, who is the mother of the murdered woman.

When the crime occurred, the State Department of Justice (Sejus) pronounced itself saying that the occurrence had been registered by the Civil Police (PC) as a suicide and that four inmates testified at the Department of Homicides and Protection of Persons (DHPP), which was instituted Police inquiry by the Prison Crimes Police Station, to investigate the circumstances of the fact.

The inquiry states that "the drawing up of the notice of arrest in flagrante delicto" was determined against the three detainees who participated in the crime. The family's lawyer, Antonio Fernando Moreira, defends, in the compensation claim, that no action was taken to guarantee the victim's survival, "just a prison opening, supposedly for only LGBTI+ inmates, for English to see."

The statement is based, as stated in the document, on the fact that one of the killers declares himself to be cisgender in the National Prison Information Survey (Infopen), that he does not belong to the LGBT+ community. According to the account given in the indemnity claim, he fired a "narrow bang" against the victim and held her neck for some time. Then another detainee placed his legs over the woman's legs so that she would stop struggling and making noise.

Then, the inmate who gave the "narrow-naked choke", still holding the victim's neck, asked a third party to take a sheet to hang her, a request that was complied with. The attacks ended only when death was confirmed. As stated in the indemnity claim, the detainee who started the violence practices martial arts and said he was motivated by the food debt.

In addition, he would have tried to kill another cellmate the night before, as his intention with the crimes was to be transferred to another prison. This is not the first murder committed by the criminal, as, according to the document, in December 2019, according to a complaint filed by the Public Ministry of Espírito Santo (MPES), he beat another inmate to death at the Vila Velha II State Penitentiary (PEVV II – Xuri).

The family's lawyer emphasizes, in the indemnity claim, that in the Federal Constitution "inmates are guaranteed respect for physical and moral integrity". Thus, it is up to the State to "safeguard such assets, under penalty of being liable for damages".

It also mentions the civil liability of the State, provided for in item six of article 37 of the Constitution, which states that "legal entities governed by public law and private law providers of public services will be liable for damages that their agents, in that capacity, cause to third parties , guaranteed the right of recourse against the responsible in cases of intent or fault".

The Medium Security Penitentiary II (PSME II) was inaugurated on May 26 of this year and is the first exclusive and reference prison unit for the LGBTI+ population in Espírito Santo. It has a capacity for 296 custodians and works in the Viana complex. Its purpose is to ensure that there are no rights violations to this group.




https://www.seculodiario.com.br/seguranca/familia-de-mulher-morta-em-presidio-move-acao-contra-o-governo-do-estado
