Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-06-30T19:31:38+01:00

====== Jasmine Rook (Falmouth - 2 Oct 2017) ======
Created Tuesday 30 June 2020
@suicide


Jasmine Rook
2 Oct 2017
Penryn Campus, Falmouth
United Kingdom
suicide

Tributes have been paid to a ‘very bright and able student’ who was found dead the day after her 22nd birthday.

Jasmine Rook is understood to have been found at the Glasney Village of Falmouth University at around 11am on October 2.

Jasmine Rook: Falmouth student and transgender campaigner took own life
19 October 2018
Share this with Facebook Share this with Messenger Share this with Twitter Share this with Email Share
Image copyrightFACEBOOK
Image caption
The student population was "hugely affected" by Jasmine Rook's death, student services said
A student who took her own life on campus made a "crisis" phone call for help that was not followed up by the NHS, an inquest has heard.

Jasmine Rook, 22, phoned a mental health out-of-hours service pleading "to go to a safe place" one night in September 2017, the hearing was told.

The transgender woman, who had tried to take her own life that month, hung up and her call was not returned.

She was found dead nine days later on Falmouth Universty's Penryn Campus.

Cornwall coroner Emma Carlyon said the phone call was the last time she was definitively known to be alive, and a verdict of suicide was recorded as the cause of death.

Jasmine Rook was a self-professed "passionate" campaigner for transgender and womens' rights
Ms Rook's mother Stephanie Bolter told the Truro inquest she had been increasingly worried at her daughter's lack of contact in the lead up to her death and on 29 September she had a "horrific feeling she was dead".

Ms Bolter said she repeatedly contacted the university asking them to find her but the "common response from the university was that Jasmine has privacy rights".

The inquest heard how mental health professionals knew Plymouth-born Ms Rook had tried to take her own life early in September but failed and was taken to A&E on 16 September after pleading with university security staff to kill her.

She went on to miss several appointments which they tried to contact her about, it was told.

Jack Richards, a mental health nurse with Cornwall Partnership NHS Foundation Trust said he thought Ms Rook was at "moderate risk" and that she "seemed to be looking to the future" when he spoke to her.

Ms Rook's body was found locked in her bedroom on Penryn Campus
However, Julie Rae from student services, which had been supporting Ms Rook, said she had expressed a recent fear of the potential abuse she might suffer if she went to a male prison as a transgender woman.

Ms Rook was on hormone replacement therapy and her gender transition seemed to be going positively, but she had recently struggled with money worries, a relationship break up and alcohol misuse, the hearing was told.

The coroner said Falmouth University and Cornwall Partnership NHS Foundation Trust had carried out a review since the death and had made many improvements with regards to sharing information better and escalating potential crisis cases.


Falmouth University has confirmed one of its students living at its Penryn campus has died.

Jasmine Felicity Rook is understood to have been found at Glasney Village on her 22nd birthday.


The circumstances of her death are unknown at this time.

ADVERTISING

inRead invented by Teads
The student, who graduated from Saltash Community College in 2015, was a second-year English creative writing student from Saltash.

Vice chancellor and chief executive of Falmouth University Anne Carlisle sent an email to all students following the death earlier this week.

In it she said: “I am writing with the very sad news that one of our students, Jasmine Rook, has died. Jasmine was on her second year studying English creative writing and lived in Glasney Village.

“If any of you would like support during this difficult time, then do contact our welfare team or the outside agencies listed.”

The email included contact information for a number of support groups.

READ MORE
Las Vegas shooting victims mocked by University of Exeter Camborne School of Mines students wearing tabards in Falmouth also saying 'I love rape'
The university's head of communications, Robert Hillier, said: “Our priority at present is to continue to offer help and support to Jasmine’s family and those who were close to her at Falmouth. We will not be making any further comments at this time.”

Maxwell Jewell, of the FXU Pride Society, part of the student union at the Penryn campus the university shares with the University of Exeter, posted to the society’s Facebook page saying the news of Jasmine’s death was “horrible”.

He said: “A great friend to a lot of us, and a prominent member of our community passed away.

“Some of us knew her for ages, others only met her once or twice, but she was a strong, vibrant member of the community, and always fought for our rights and our safety. She was passionate, extremely intelligent, and funny.

“We wanted to let you know that we're a family, and while myself, and the other committee, may not be capable of offering full emotional support to anyone affected, please, please find strength and love in each other.

“We, the committee, knew Jasmine very well, so if we are a bit quiet, or don't reply to many messages, we apologise in advance. Please, do reach out if you need it.”

READ MORE
Falmouth University vice-chancellor had eighth highest pay rise in UK - increased by a third over five years
The society also organised a meeting on campus to show solidarity with each other and “be together as both a society and a family”.

“Be safe everyone, and please take care of yourselves. Sticking together in this time, and spreading love amongst each other, is vital,” he said.


In May this year Jasmine stood for the role of women’s officer at the university.

Writing on her own Facebook page she said: “I will improve the life on campus for every woman, not just a few. If you know me, you know of my passion, my aggression to meet injustice in the flesh and rip it down. You should vote for me because I keep my promises. I bite not just bark.”

The body of a transgender woman who took her own life was found with several unopened birthday cards in her Falmouth University accommodation the day after she turned 22.

An inquest heard today (Friday October 19) that Jasmine Felicity Rook, born Jake Stanley Hanson, struggled with mental health issues and was taken to A&E twice in the month before she was discovered dead on October 2 2017.

On September 1 2017 she was found wandering around the university and was picked up by campus patrol. She told them that she was trying to kill herself.

Then, on September 3, she was taken to A&E with injuries to her elbow. She was taken to A&E a second time on September 16 after approaching campus reception staff whilst intoxicated and asking them to kill her.

When her body was found on October 2, there was a note on the floor from her flatmate Katie that had been passed under the door saying "I hope you're ok," and offering her support.

Her laptop was still switched on, and there was a page open about psychiatric self-referral.

Jasmine was popular in the university's LGBT community, and had aspirations to become a writer after studying English with Creative Writing, for which she received "very good marks" according to director of student and academic services David Dickinson.

Her history of mental health issues had led her GP to prescribe her an antidepressant and a beta-blocker. She was also taking hormone replacement medication as part of her treatment by the Laurels Specialist Gender Identity Clinic in Exeter.

Julie Rae, who worked for the university's student support service FX Plus at the time, said that Jasmine had cited numerous triggers that affected her mental health, including her alcohol use.

Jasmine had an appointment with the university's mental health team on September 21 which she did not attend. Julie Rae visited her room on September 23 to check up on her, and said: "She was okay with us waking her up."

This was the last time that Jasmine was seen alive.

Senior Coroner Dr Emma Carlyon found that there was no evidence of third party involvement, and that Jasmine died by suicide.

She said: "I'm sure on the balance of probabilities that Jasmine died from a deliberate act."

Dr Carlyon went on to say: "I would like to express condolences to the family. I know it's been a very difficult time and hopefully this has brought some closure."

If you need to talk to someone, contact the Samaritans:

www.samaritans.org

Call - 116 123

Email - jo@samaritans.org

https://www.falmouthpacket.co.uk/news/16995854.transgender-falmouth-university-student-died-of-suicide/


https://www.bbc.co.uk/news/uk-england-cornwall-45906685

https://www.cornwalllive.com/news/cornwall-news/jasmine-rook-saltash-falmouth-tributes-606495

https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/tributes-student-who-died-room-605883

https://www.plymouthherald.co.uk/news/plymouth-news/teenage-student-saltash-found-dead-595523

https://www.cornwalllive.com/news/cornwall-news/transgender-falmouth-university-student-who-2127050

https://www.cornwalllive.com/news/cornwall-news/transgender-falmouth-university-student-who-2127050

https://twitter.com/Susan_Larson_TN/status/1053722137519943680
