Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-07T08:24:37+01:00

====== Lourival Bezerra de Sa (Campo Grande - 5 Oct 2018) ======
Created Wednesday 07 April 2021
@medical



Lourival Bezerra de Sá
78
5 Oct 2018
Campo Grande
Brazil
heart attack


Lourival Bezerra de Sá: The mysterious past of a trans man
For 50 years, Enedina Maria de Jesus identified herself as Lourival, but no one knew it - including her family

Fabio Previdelli Published on 20/02/2021, at 10h00

Lourival Bezerra de Sá
Lourival Bezerra de Sá - Disclosure
On October 5, 2018, the body of Lourival Bezerra de Sá , 78, was sent to the Institute of Medicine and Legal Dentistry (Imol), in Campo Grande, Mato Grosso do Sul. Until then, the case comprised more an autopsy, like any other. 

However, one thing intrigued not only doctors but Lourival's family : he was a trans man who hid his biological sex for 50 years from everyone, including his family. Understand the case! 

Lourival's unknown past 
Lourival died of a massive heart attack. His body was sent to the Obiro Verification Service (SVO), however, when he was transferred to Imol, a doctor discovered that he was born with a different gender to which he identified himself.  

With that, experts started an incessant search for information about their past. Furthermore, a fact that corroborates with all this 'mystery' is that, at the time that Bezerra de Sá began to identify himself with another genre, the trans community still did not have recognized rights , which explains why he does not have documentation. officers with his male name - he even had an identity document, but it was considered false for the reasons cited.  

This, even, was an aggravating factor at the time of his burial, since, in this way, his identification could not be used for the registration of his death certificate and, as a consequence, the release of the body was not authorized. As a result, Lourival had to stay a long time at Imol until investigations progressed. 

Lourival's burial 
Due to the conduct of the investigations, Bezerra de Sá had to stay 158 days at Imol do Mato Grosso. His body was only released for burial on March 12, 2019. However, anyone who thinks that the case ended there is mistaken.  

Later, it was discovered that Lourival was born as Enedina Maria de Jesus , however, even Enedina did not have real documents. He had no birth certificate that would give the  names.  

"It may be a case of gender identity different from biological sex, however, the investigation cannot be closed only in this aspect, it also intends to raise the possibility that he is faking a male identity to hide some situation, work issue or some crime, for example, ”said delegate Christiane Grossi , responsible for the investigations, as a delivery man to G1. 

Another point that drew attention is that Lourival registered six children in life, all with documentation issued in the correct way, however, with false data, since his documents were not legal.  

According to the investigations, none of the children knew that their father was a trans man. "He was a person who didn't even go to the doctor, locked doors to go to the bathroom, and not even within the family, did anyone know about this situation," said the delegate. 

This 'secret' of Lourival was only revealed a few days before his death. A few days before the death, he told details about his past to a caregiver - whose identity was not revealed. The two have lived together since he arrived in Cuiabá, however, according to investigators, they did not have a romantic relationship.  

"In the past, there was not so much formality for the birth registration of people. Nowadays, the person already leaves the maternity with the birth certificate. So, he did not choose a different gender identity, he created a character. Someone was born biologically. woman and she didn’t die, so the body is there and is not being identified. It’s a legal issue, a mystery that needs to be unveiled so that the proceedings are closed ", concluded the delegate. 

Your life story 
Going back in time, it is possible to discover more details about Lourival's past . The first point is the city of Goiânia, in Goiás. 50 years ago, he met his first companion there, Maria Olina de Souza Apollo . Together, they registered four children.  

From there, they moved to Ituverava, a city in the interior of São Paulo. Shortly after, the couple separated and Bezerra de Sá went alone to Cuiabá. It was there that he met the caregiver and together they moved to Campo Grande.  

In the state capital, he performed several functions: he was a wall painter, a realtor and even started a company. In addition, Lourival was also a medium at a spiritist center. He and the caregiver lived together for almost 40 years, raising two children.  

According to  Ivaldirene Monteiro dos Santos , a friend of the caregiver, the woman even commented that when Bezerra de Sá was already ill, she tried to bathe him on several occasions. However, he did not accept. When she finally gave in, she found a band tied around the region of Lourival's breasts . 

Exams performed at Imol show that injuries were found in the region described by the caregiver. Despite his health problems, he did not like attending doctors. In addition, he also avoided wearing shorts and T-shirts.  

“ Lourival was very careful not to be seen naked, so much so that to shower, he would lock the bedroom door and lock the bathroom door. To sleep, he slept in pants and with a very tight belt ”, explained the delegate.  

To his neighbors, he said he was born in Palmeira dos Índios, in Alagoas. However, on her deathbed, she revealed to her caregiver her birth name ( Edineia Maria de Jesus ) and that her parents called Cícero Gomes da Silva and  Tertuliana Maria de Jesus .

He also informed the names of his brothers: José Gomes da Silva, Antonio Gomes da Silva, Sebastião Gomes da Silva, Juvenal Gomes da Silva and Gersina Maria de Jesus. Lourival also revealed that he was born in Bom Conselho, in the interior of Pernambuco.  

Based on this information, the investigations turned to these two cities, however, there is no record in any of them of any child who was born with the name of  Enedina Maria de Jesus .  

Bezerra de Sá said he lost his documents over the years, leaving only his CPF, already with his male name. With that, his fingerprints were collected and compared with the database of several States.  

“Rio Grande do Sul, Pernambuco, Mato Grosso, Tocantins, Paraná, Rio de Janeiro, Distrito Federal and Goiás, have already 'answered' us, and their response is negative, which was not identified, that is, those fingerprints were not found in the registries of these states ”, informed  Maurilton Ferreira de Souza , director of the Identification Institute of Mato Grosso do Sul. 

Paternity?
Another point raised in this whole story is the origin of the children of Lourival . After all, who are your real parents? 

"As a daughter, very difficult, a very complicated story, because until then, I grew up thinking that my father called Lourival, he was there as a father, then when he died, he was a woman. In other words, then, I don't have a father, I don't have There we are waiting for the result of a DNA to know if one of us are children of Lourival Bezerra de Sá , as a woman, who can be a mother, right, and also Maria Olinda ", declared one of Lourival's daughters ,  Glaydiany Apollo de Sá . 

“She must also have a history, have a name, she is a person. Whether she made a mistake or not, she cannot be buried as destitute. I don't want that for her, ”said  Galydiany . 

https://www.perfilnews.com.br/na-casa-onde-lourival-viveu-familia-se-despede-com-velorio-reservado/

https://aventurasnahistoria.uol.com.br/noticias/reportagem/lourival-bezerra-de-sa-o-passado-misterioso-de-um-homem-trans.phtml

https://pt.org.br/sr-lourival-homem-trans-cuja-identidade-a-midia-tentou-apagar/

https://agenciapatriciagalvao.org.br/violencia/lgbt/por-que-nao-reconhecer-lourival-bezerra-como-homem-trans-e-falha-institucional/

https://costalestenews.com.br/noticias/policia-procura-familia-biologica-de-mulher-que-passou-mais-de-50-anos-se-identificando-como-homem

https://dpu.jusbrasil.com.br/noticias/671830015/gt-lgbti-da-dpu-se-manifesta-sobre-caso-do-sr-lourival-bezerra-de-sa?ref=amp
