Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-30T07:13:21+00:00

====== Myrah Whitstone (Edmonton - 24 Mar 2018) ======
Created Friday 30 October 2020
@uncategorised




Myrah Whitstone
34
https://edmontonjournal.com/news/crime/what-happened-to-myrah-whitstone-months-later-mother-still-looking-for-answers
24 Mar 2018
Edmonton
Canada
overdose



EDMONTON—Myrah Whitstone’s sister remembers her as fun-loving and ready to laugh — and a bit mischievous, too.

“A lot of my clothes went missing over the years,” Sabrina Prince said Thursday. “I laugh about it now but I got mad about it at the time.”

On March 24, police found Whitstone’s body off Hwy. 16 in a rural area of Strathcona County, and this week RCMP reached out to the public for information that could help them in their investigation into the death.

Read More: RCMP seek public’s assistance in death of transgender woman near Edmonton

They released photos of a grey Dodge Journey they believe to be connected to Whitstone, and also said she was last seen speaking to a man in the Dodge along 118 Ave. the day before.

The family is waiting on toxicology results from the medical examiner and police haven’t released any details on 34-year-old Whitstone’s death.

Among those anxiously awaiting the result is Prince, who’d grown up with Whitstone in Edmonton. Although not related by blood, the two fatherless kids quickly became inseparable, Prince recalled.

“We grew up like brother and sister, we actually told everyone we were blood brother and sister,” she said.

Whitstone was a transgender woman, but Prince says she and the family knew her as Murray, the name she used before transitioning, but also loved her as Myrah, and Prince refers to Whitstone as he.

Her voice breaking with emotion, Prince recalls Whitstone as someone who identified as a First Nations man and a transgender woman.

“He was always there to help you with your children,” she said. “He was like Uncle Murray or he was also Antie Myrah (to her four kids). He would call himself ‘Antcle Murray.’ ”

A spokesperson from the Pride Centre of Edmonton said they had no concrete information on how Whitstone self-identified, and said people knew her as both Myrah and Murray.

Prince said Whitstone lost a brother in a car accident 15 years ago, and a few years later lost another brother to suicide. Prince said Whitstone was troubled for a long time by that and ended up on 118 Ave. using drugs and alcohol and working as a sex worker.

But Prince remembers Whitstone as a champion powwow dancer, a person who for six years went to college to be a social worker, and as someone who was proud of being a role model for LGBTQ2+ youth.

Dancing was a passion for Whitstone, who travelled all over the country to powwows.

“There was this cross between Murray and Myrah. During the week he would practice his makeup and hang out with my kids and stuff, take them to the park dressed up,” said Prince. “My kids didn’t care, we didn’t care. He was happy, we were happy.”

But some of Whitstone’s family members didn’t approve of her being transgender, and the funeral held for Whitstone wasn’t how Prince wanted it.

“We had to dress it down,” she said. “It was nothing like Murray wanted.”

But she found a way to celebrate both sides of Whitstone. She put makeup on her face, nail polish on her fingernails and did two braids in her hair.

She only did it on half the body to honour Whitstone’s Cree culture as well as her trans culture, Prince said.

GET THE LATEST IN YOUR INBOX
Never miss the latest news from the Star, including up-to-date coronavirus coverage, with our email newsletters.

“He’s been paving the way for boys and young girls since maybe he was about 14 or 15 and he grew into his own and he was like, ‘don’t be shy, be yourself,’ ” she said of Whitstone’s interest in helping LGBTQ2+ kids. “I know he helped a lot of people tell their families.”

In the last year, Prince said she thought Whitstone was doing a lot better in life trying to stay away from the streets. It came as a shock when Whitstone turned up dead three months ago.

“He was more than just a prostitute. He was an uncle, and he was an auntie and he was my brother. He was a son and a daughter,” she said, pausing to cry. “He was somebody you could generally count on no matter what.”



Transgender woman found dead near Highway 16 died of overdose, mother says
But she — and police — still have questions about how Myrah Whitstone ended up abandoned almost 30 kilometres from where she was last seen.

Whitstone, 34, was last seen near 118 Avenue and 83 Street last March 23. According to police, Whitstone was seen speaking to a man in a Dodge Journey SUV.

Her body was found along Highway 16 the following day, about 30 kilometres away.

Last June, Strathcona County RCMP said they were seeking information about Whitstone’s death and released photos of both Whitstone and the vehicle in an effort to drum up tips.

Her death is not considered suspicious, but investigators said they want to establish where Whitstone was between 12:45 a.m. and 8 a.m. last March 24.

Story continues below
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
The police news release identified Whitstone as “Myrah (Murray) Whitstone, a trans woman … connected to the transgender community in Edmonton.” Alvina Whitstone said that around her, Myrah Whitstone lived as Murray. The two lived together at the mother’s home in north Edmonton.


Strathcona County RCMP released images of a light coloured Dodge Journey, which they say was driven by a man last seen interacting with Myrah Whitstone on March 23, 2018, in Edmonton.
Alvina Whitstone spoke to Postmedia last week, saying she was frustrated at the lack of information from the medical examiner. An RCMP spokesperson said investigators were also waiting on toxicology results.

On Thursday, Whitstone finally spoke to someone from the office of the chief medical examiner, who confirmed there was a mix of alcohol, cocaine, meth and cannabis in Myrah Whitstone’s system.

There was no sign of trauma on the body, Alvina Whitstone said, adding the medical examiner’s official did not know when exactly the death occurred. She said the official said they had been unable to reach her because her number had changed.

A spokesperson for the provincial government said she could not confirm Myrah Whitstone’s cause of death for privacy reasons.

Whitstone said she knew her child used drugs.

“I would tell him how much I loved him, how much it hurts me to see him getting dragged down by these addictions,” she said. “I used to always tell him, ‘Get help, get help, I’ll support you 100 per cent.'”

While knowing how her child died gives her some closure, Whitstone still has unanswered questions.

“Why would somebody go dump his body out there, 30 kilometres out of the city?” she said.

An RCMP spokesperson said the investigation is ongoing.

jwakefield@postmedia.com

twitter.com/jonnywakefield

Edmonton Journal Headline News
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Edmonton Journal, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.

Email AddressBy clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300
This Week in Flyers
Comments
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.




What happened to Myrah Whitstone? Months later, mother still looking for answers
Jonny Wakefield
Feb 04, 2019  •  Last Updated 1 year ago  •  3 minute read
Myrah Whitstone, left, was last seen on March 23, 2018 at 12:45 a.m. speaking with a man in a Dodge Journey on 118 Avenue. Whitstone's body was found the next day more than 30 miles east, on Highway 16. Police and Whitstone's mother are still waiting for toxicology results.
Myrah Whitstone, left, was last seen on March 23, 2018 at 12:45 a.m. speaking with a man in a Dodge Journey on 118 Avenue. Whitstone's body was found the next day more than 30 miles east, on Highway 16. Police and Whitstone's mother are still waiting for toxicology results. Edmonton
Alvina Whitstone wonders every day what happened to Myrah.

To Alvina, Myrah was Murray, her 34-year-old son. The two were like best friends, and lived together at Alvina’s north Edmonton home.

Around others, Murray was Myrah — an aspiring social worker with long hair and makeup who liked to spend time in bars on 118 Avenue.

Ten months ago, Alvina’s world was turned upside down when she learned Myrah’s body had been found along a highway in rural Strathcona County. Police said she was last seen speaking to a man in a Dodge Journey. Beyond that, Alvina doesn’t know what happened.

“Every day I think about it,” Alvina said. “When I wake up, ’til I go to bed, I think about Murray.”

Whitstone’s death is not being treated as suspicious, but police said they would like to establish why her body was discovered so far from where she was last seen.

Frustratingly, Alvina still doesn’t know how her child died, pending toxicology results that haven’t come through after 10 months.

Story continues below
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
“It’s almost a year and they still haven’t got no answers,” Alvina said.

From left: Alvina Whitstone and Myrah (Murray) Whitstone.
From left: Alvina Whitstone and Myrah (Murray) Whitstone. Edmonton
What we know
Strathcona County RCMP issued a news release on June 20, 2018, saying they were seeking information about Whitstone’s death.

The news release identified her as “Myrah (Murray) Whitstone, a trans woman” who was “connected to the transgender community in Edmonton.”

According to police, Whitstone was last seen on March 23, 2018, at about 12:45 a.m., “interacting” with a man in a light coloured Dodge Journey near 118 Avenue and 83 Street.

The next day, Whitstone’s body was found near Highway 16 and Range Road 213 — more than 30 km east near Elk Island National Park.

Police were looking for the public’s help to establish her whereabouts between 12:45 a.m. and 8 a.m. the next day.

Alvina was told it would take six to nine months for toxicology results. But when she spoke to medical examiners in late January, she was told those results could take another few months.

She said she’s left to wonder whether the delays are due to the high volume of cases or some other factor, or whether who Myrah was played a role.

“Sometimes that’s what I think because one, he’s transgender, two he’s native, three he’s a street person,” she said.


Police released a surveillance image of the light coloured Dodge Journey.
Investigation still ‘very active’
In an email, RCMP Const. Chantelle Kelly said there were no updates on Whitstone’s case that could be released to the public.

Story continues below
This advertisement has not loaded yet, but your article continues below.
The case is “still a very active investigation,” Kelly said, adding investigators too are waiting on toxicology results.

A spokesperson for Alberta’s Ministry of Justice and Solicitor General, which oversees the Office of the Chief Medical Examiner, said they could not release details about specific cases for privacy reasons.

In general, death investigations by the medical examiner can “routinely take several months,” the spokesperson said. Investigations typically involve reviewing autopsy findings and medical records along with additional lab work. The final autopsy report is then released to next of kin.

Strathcona County RCMP are seeking the public's assistance in the death of 34-year-old Myrah Whitstone, a trans woman who was found dead near Range Road 213 north of Highway 16 on March 24th, 2018. Police have released images of a light coloured Dodge Journey, which police say was driven by a man seen interacting with Whitstone on Mach 23 in Edmonton. Police say the van was last seen travelling west along 118 Avenue. (Photo Supplied/RCMP)
A photo of Myrah (Murray) Whitstone released by RCMP. Edmonton
‘I just want answers’
Whitstone was buried on the reserve of the Red Pheasant First Nation in Saskatchewan, where Alvina is from and Myrah’s two brothers are buried.

Alvina said Myrah studied social work and wanted to help youth and others with addictions. She completed a practicum at Creating Hope Society of Alberta, which helps family navigate the child welfare system, and also did advocacy work for an Indigenous mothers group.

At the time of Myrah’s death, she was on disability for severe anxiety and depression that began with the death of her brothers.

Family and friends held a vigil for Myrah a few days after RCMP made their public plea. The vigil was held along Okîsikow Way — a stretch of 101A Avenue named in honour of women and girls who have been victims of violence.

Alvina said she’s desperate for information and asked anyone with information to contact police. “I just want answers,” she said.

jwakefield@postmedia.com

twitter.com/jonnywakefield

Edmonton Journal Headline News
Sign up to receive daily headline news from the Edmonton Journal, a division of Postmedia Network Inc.

Email AddressBy clicking on the sign up button you consent to receive the above newsletter from Postmedia Network Inc. You may unsubscribe any time by clicking on the unsubscribe link at the bottom of our emails. Postmedia Network Inc. | 365 Bloor Street East, Toronto, Ontario, M4W 3L4 | 416-383-2300
This Week in Flyers
Comments
Postmedia is committed to maintaining a lively but civil forum for discussion and encourage all readers to share their views on our articles. Comments may take up to an hour for moderation before appearing on the site. We ask you to keep your comments relevant and respectful. We have enabled email notifications—you will now receive an email if you receive a reply to your comment, there is an update to a comment thread you follow or if a user you follow comments. Visit our Community Guidelines for more information and details on how to adjust your email settings.

https://www.thestar.com/edmonton/2018/06/21/somebody-you-could-count-on-sister-of-deceased-transgender-woman-tells-her-story.html

https://edmontonjournal.com/news/local-news/transgender-woman-found-dead-near-highway-16-died-of-overdose-mother-says

https://www.cbc.ca/news/canada/edmonton/myrah-murray-whitstone-strathcona-county-death-1.4721393

https://edmontonjournal.com/news/crime/what-happened-to-myrah-whitstone-months-later-mother-still-looking-for-answers

https://www.thestar.com/edmonton/2018/06/28/vigil-to-be-held-for-indigenous-transgender-woman.html

https://edmonton.ctvnews.ca/rcmp-investigating-death-of-trans-woman-found-near-hwy-16-in-march-1.3981488

https://globalnews.ca/news/4304204/myrah-whitstone-vigil-edmonton-strathcona-county/
