Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-24T08:04:07+01:00

====== Alexia Gamboa (Tuxtla Gutierrez - 22 Sep 2020) ======
Created Thursday 24 September 2020
@unconfirmed


Alexia Gamboa
43
22 Sep 2020
Tuxtla Gutiérrez
Chiapas
Mexico
16.7393806,-93.107356
beaten. survived?

[NOT ON TDOR 2020 LIST. HOLD UNTIL TDOR 2021 LIST PUBLISHED]

Transsexual was savagely beaten in a bar
 Sep 22, 2020 - 7:41 pm  Police Comments Off

Transsexual was savagely beaten in a bar
Paramedics from the Mexican Red Cross assisted a subject dressed as a woman who was brutally beaten by one or more unknown persons.

At the edge of five in the morning on Tuesday, the lifeguards of the worthy institution arrived at the restaurant bar "Kayukis", located on the fourteenth south and fourteen east of the Maldonado neighborhood in Tuxtla Gutiérrez.


The paramedics found the man, apparently transsexual, inside the establishment with blows to his face and other parts of the body, for which they decided to transfer him to the Regional Hospital "Rafael Pascasio Gamboa", where his health is reported as delicate.

According to versions of the neighbors, the wounded man is named Audiel, alias “Alexia”, who is frequently beaten by his partner, however, he was not found at the scene of the attack.

Elements of the municipal police and experts from the State Attorney General's Office (FGE) cordoned off the restaurant bar in order to gather evidence that would reveal what happened inside. 


A male person was found brutally beaten inside a bar located in the Maldonado neighborhood, the motives for the attack being unknown.

The events took place around 06:30 in the morning when the authorities were reported using the emergency number 911 that on 14 Avenida Sur between 14 and 15 Calle Oriente, specifically in a bar named Kayukis, the person in charge of an approximate age of 43 years old over a pool of blood due to a beating he received by subjects who fled.

IT MAY ALSO INTEREST YOU
Leader of Tlaxiaco tenants returns to prison for breach of arrest warrant
Two subjects are linked to the process for false documentation in San Pablo Etla
In Tapachula, alcohol took his life
After what happened, elements of the Municipal Police arrived at the place and when they saw the person in poor condition, they requested the support of an ambulance and agreed on the place.

A few minutes later, the paramedics of the Mexican Red Cross arrived aboard the chis 610 ambulance and gave first aid to the beaten and after receiving pre-hospital care, he was transferred to the Gilberto Gómez Maza Regional Hospital for prompt medical attention. he was severely injured.

It is worth mentioning that until now it is unknown what the motive for the attack was.

For their part, the police corporations that arrived at the scene only took data from the injured person.



A young man who apparently works as a watchman in a bar located in the Maldonado neighborhood of this capital, was savagely attacked in the early hours of this Tuesday, without it being known at the moment what or what could have been the true causes of The agression.

Neighbors of the bar at 14th Oriente and 14th Sur requested the support of the aid and rescue bodies, to attend to the person who was inside a bar known as "Kayukis", and had serious injuries in different parts of the body.

Red Cross paramedics came to the place, who provided the first cures to the person, whose identity was not disclosed, but who was rushed to a hospital, where he was admitted to receive medical attention.

The authorities are already conducting the first inquiries about this fact of blood, since presumably, the bar would have been operating until very late at night and this could be used by customers to attack the person.


https://ultimatumchiapas.com/sangriento-amanecer-para-la-alexia/

https://www.nvinoticias.com/nota/160962/lo-tunden-golpes-en-bar-de-tuxtla-gutierrez

https://esdiario.com.mx/?p=347258

https://diariodechiapas.com/la-roja/golpiza/137134

https://oyechiapas.com/estado/tuxtla-gutierrez/74655-joven-salvajemente-golpeado-hallado-dentro-de-un-bar.html
