Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-02T23:03:40+01:00

====== Aneste Mweru (Nairobi - 13 Apr 2020) ======
Created Friday 02 October 2020
@unconfirmed




Aneste Mweru
28
13 Apr 2020
Nairobi
Kenya
suicide
Described only as LGBTTI. trans? (probably not, but keep on file just in case)

Refugee commits suicide by hanging himself outside UNHCR's Nairobi office

A Ugandan refugee allegedly committed suicide on Monday 13 April 2020 at the hang from a tree at the office of the UN Agency for Refugees ( UNHCR ) in Nairobi, after receiving a beating from security guards guarding the building.

The deceased, 28 years old, responds to the name of Aneste Mweru , confirmed to EFE his partner and also a refugee Shimwe Nathan , of Congolese origin.

Mweru was reportedly unable to pay rent on his home after losing his job as a result of the economic impact of the coronavirus pandemic in the Kenyan capital, partially confined to contain the expansion of covid-19.

Since then, the deceased and other refugees had spent several nights "sleeping under a bridge ," Nathan explained.

Mweru, I noted, "got up this morning to go to the office UNHCR to ask for help."

"He got there," he continued, "around two in the morning (23:00 on Sunday). And the guards who protect the UNHCR office began to beat him because nobody is allowed to be outside the UNHCR office," in the mud of the Westlands (north).

"The boy became weak and, without being able to do more, he hung himself from a tree," said Nathan, who, along with some twenty refugees, protested this morning at the UNHCR headquarters while the body of his friend was still hanging from the branches until that was withdrawn by the Police.

In its account of the social network Twitter, the UNHCR office in Kenya stated that "it is aware of the incident today in which a refugee tragically lost his life."

"The office is closely monitoring the ongoing police investigation. UNHCR Kenya will provide more information as it becomes available," the UN agency added , transmitting its "deepest compassion " to the victim's family . Mweru belonged to the group of refugees Lgbti (Lesbian, Gay, Transgender, Bisexual and Intersex) "from Nairobi, said also Ugandan Geoffrey Rainbo on Twitter , transferred by UNHCR from the Kakuma refugee camp (northwest Kenya) to the Kenyan capital , where he befriended his ill-fated compatriot. His suicide

"It happened after he was beaten by UNHCR security at the place where he went to ask for help in terms of food and accommodation after the withdrawal of the financial assistance that he and many of us, from the Kakuma refugee camp , faced during this pandemic, "added Geoffrey Rainbo.

A large part of the almost 200 Lgbti refugees counted last year by UNHCR in Kakuma came from Uganda, where a law against homosexuality signed by President Yoweri Museveni in 2014, and invalidated months later by the Constitutional Court, punished relations with life imprisonment. homosexual.

So many began to see their salvation in Kenya, where colonial law rarely provides penalties of up to 14 years in prison .

In May of last year, the UN called for "calm" of Lgbti refugees after protests at UNHCR headquarters in Nairobi to demand better treatment that led to riots in which the police used tear gas and detained more than 20 protesters .

https://es-us.noticias.yahoo.com/refugiado-suicida-ahorc%C3%A1ndose-oficina-acnur-212800835.html?guccounter=1

https://76crimes.com/2020/04/13/desperate-lgbtq-refugee-hangs-himself-outside-u-n-agency-in-kenya/

https://www.the-star.co.ke/news/2020-04-13-refugee-commits-suicide-after-scuffle-with-police-over-food/

https://www.elcomercio.com/actualidad/suicidio-refugiado-acnur-nairobi-kenia.html
