Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-24T21:41:01+01:00

====== Arturo Palacio Martínez (Coatzacoalcos - 23 Sep 2020) ======
Created Thursday 24 September 2020
@unconfirmed


Arturo Palacio Martínez
23 Sep 2020
Coatzacoalcos
Veracruz
Mexico
beaten
trans? (don't think so)


Coatzacoalcos Ver. - A new crime against a member of the LGBTTTI community was registered on the night of Wednesday, September 23 in Coatzacoalcos: Arturo Palacio Martínez, stylist and choreographer of social events, was beaten to death inside his home. It is the seventh attack registered in the south of the state so far this year, and the 20th in the state. 

Around midnight, his body was found with traces of violence in the living room of his home, located on Primaveras street between Gardenias and the Gulf of Mexico in the Santa Isabel fourth stage neighborhood, west of Coatzacoalcos. It is unknown who or who killed him.

Elements of the Ministerial Police and personnel from Expert Services arrived at the place, who lifted the victim's body, which was sent to the Forensic Medical Service (Semefo) of this city, waiting for it to be legally identified by its relatives.

So far the motive for the murder is unknown, which was lamented by friends and family on social networks. While others were caught off guard with this unfortunate news.

"Rest in peace Arturo Palacio, you were and will be a wonderful human being, may God bless you from heaven, friend, Amen, " reads one of the many publications that his friends made.

LGBTTTI community demands that the 7 crimes in the region do not go unpunished
Lamenting the murder of Arturo, the representative of the lesbian, gay, bisexual, transsexual, transgender, transvestite and intersex (LGBTTTI) community Luis Giovanni Pérez demanded that the authorities be investigated until those responsible are found. Remembering that it is the number seven that has been registered in the south of Veracruz so far in 2020, without any crime being clarified so far.

"It is a hate crime what happened and what is happening because of how Arturo Palacio was found, that is why we demand that the authorities investigate the case, we ask the prosecution that this crime and the other cases do not go unpunished" , he reiterated.

He said that in the state there are 20 murders against members of the LGBTTTI community, even though hate crimes are typified in Mexican law and the Penal Code of the State of Veracruz.

“And it is that the murders against the community is not something new, they have always existed and they do not stop. That is why we are fighting for the laws to be applied, because until now we say it sincerely, they are a dead letter , "he said.

Just this Thursday, September 24, the members of the State Coalition of the LGBTTTI community announced that there is progress in the creation of a Protocol of Attention to this sector, on the part of the State Attorney General's Office (FGE), which includes the Accompaniment of relatives of victims of hate crimes.

Which they qualified as an achievement after so much discrimination they suffered from past administrations, so they hope that the actions are put in place and the laws are applied and not remain on paper.

These actions include a training process within public institutions for officials.

http://www.e-veracruz.mx/nota/2020-09-24/estado/golpes-asesinan-estilista-de-coatza

https://lasillarota.com/estados/en-crimen-de-odio-estilista-de-coatzacoalcos-fue-asesinado-a-golpes-intolerancia-comunidad-lgbt-lgbttti/437726
