Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-03-16T22:00:23+00:00

====== Effy Beth (Argentina - 26 Mar 2014) ======
Created Tuesday 16 March 2021
@suicide


Elizabeth Mía Chorubczyck ("Effy Beth")
25
https://agenciapresentes.org/2016/12/26/libros-mundo-tiemble-memorias-effy/
26 Mar 2014
Argentina
suicide


Effy Beth, the trans activist who came back from the dead with an unpublished book
Trans activist  Effy Beth committed suicide almost 7 years ago. Mom found a book written and "ready to publish" on her computer. Unique performance skills and their dark worlds come to life again in "9 stories about imaginary women and 36 written before saying goodbye." E ffy was an inspirational character from her own queer, Jewish, artistic and bodily journey. T odo home thanks to Brandon, and La Mariposa and La Iguana editions. 

At Casa Brandon, the LGBTI activist cultural center of the City of Buenos Aires, a stage was set up at the door filling the street with a desiring public. Attentive to the presentation of "9 stories about imaginary women and 36 written before saying goodbye" by Effy Beth. The microphones are taken by Dory, Effy's mother and an ESI teacher at Joaquín V. González, and Matías Máximo, writer, journalist and also who compiled and edited the activist's work after her death. The trans artist Mabel, known as the “Abortera Venus”, adds a performance on the work of Effy, an inspiring character of her own queer, Jewish, artistic and corporal journey. 

"I met Effy here, that's why I'm very excited that we're here presenting her book," Matías said at the beginning, and he told how that meeting 10 years ago had been: Effy walked up to his table and offered him oral sex. Matías accepted and chose a 15-minute shift. Effy led him by the hand to a small room, sat him on a chair and made him spread his legs: “She plugged in some headphones, put play on her knees and put the mp3 player in her mouth. I began to listen to audios of violated women, they were very strong ”. While Matías was uncomfortable, Effy stared at him and put her head between his legs. At the end of the audio, 15 eternal minutes, Effy asked him not to tell anything so as not to ruin the surprise of the performance.

Matías, like many, marveled at Effy's energy, gambling and artistry, and from that moment on he never left her. After her suicide in 2014, he was the one who put together and designed the first book that talks about her Let the world tremble. Body and performance in Effy Beth's work, published in 2016. The new book "9 and 36" was a find: Matías and Dory found it on Effy's computer ready to be published. With a numerical reading key, with crazy drawings, in order, and it even contained the dedication: “To the women who live within me, and outside of me. To me, who is not me ”.

9 stories about imaginary women
Someone once told her "you're never going to be a woman," but Effy could be one, or thousands at a time, and even more than that. "It was a very hard time for her when she wrote these stories," said her mother in front of the public, and said that she had come out of a psychiatric hospital in which she entered for attempted suicide. The imaginary women of these stories is where Effy puts all of herself to portray different ways of expression of being in dialogue with the astrology and theology of Judaism. Effy in addition to having read all of Kafka at the age of 14, lived in Israel and studied many biblical texts. “Effy knew herself well enough to dare to write all this. He locked himself away for hours and hours. She had a very complex head, I couldn't always follow her. The nine women that she recounts in the stories for her could be just one, ”explained Dory, adding: 

Effy says in this book “What is the logic? In a corridor I am, being me, and I am with them; all personified without ceasing to be totally them. Then I began to understand that dressing up, sometimes, means not covering up with other clothes, but, rather, to bare the soul a little ... And accept defeat ”. On this text Mabel made a performance in this presentation: One by one she took off her many dresses, took off wigs and sang a song. As she walked she left secrets from the public: she approached a boy in the front row and said in his ear: it is not a disguise ”. 

“He questions me about how he linked the artistic work with his body and with his personal life. It takes him to a point where you don't know what is work and what is life, "said Mabel, La Venus, about Effy, who also captured the audience of Casa Brandon with her display. “She helped me to be able to think outside the manual. Disguising does not mean putting on clothes but stripping a little more with the soul. By showing myself more diverse, I also show myself more, ”said Mabel.  

Who was Elizabeth Mía Chorubczyck?She defined herself as a conceptual, performative and feminist queer artist. But Effy can be defined much more by what she did: she studied film, arts, screenwriting, wrote and painted. But his specialty was disruptive performances that made the ordinary uncomfortable. He fought leaving his body for free identity with the renowned Lohana Berkins, Merle Wayar, Diana Sacayan and Susy Shock. He participated in his first march for pride in 2010 and in his last where he transcended with his T-shirt that said: "There are not two genders, there is only one: each one!" How a warrior got her ID and the genital reassignment operation. It was not recognized for its social work OSDE, to whom it later won reinstatement, setting historical precedents. Effy liked art and public and private intervention: For a World Day to Fight AIDS, she gathered HIV positive people in the Plaza de Mayo dressed in a T-shirt that identified them as sick. The perfo consisted of those people offering mate to those who passed through the streets, exposing the discrimination. For her, art was transforming action.

Writings to say goodbye
The 36 writings to say goodbye that make up this book are a slow goodbye. From a confinement with no escape from herself, Effy writes to free herself from everything, even language. A polyphony of writings about love and pain from where she says goodbye to make sure she is never forgotten. “She believed in art as a mirror. He wanted those who read his work to identify themselves and find their place ”, his mother Dory explained to the audience when talking about this new book. 

Effy was someone who sought to transcend in every act, and transform with every word. His fight was against the transphobic and against everything established about the binary, against abortion. Effy was able to celebrate and mourn the approval of the Gender Identity law in 2012, yet she was still a victim of the legal vacuum left by her name, Elizabeth with an M on her passport and an F on her ID. “She taught me a lot. With her I understood that art heals. With her art, she allowed herself to heal what she needed. Today I would like all those who are like her to be able to have a better time than she did, "said her mother at the end of the presentation. 

There is no doubt that Effy put her body to create with artivism. He paved roads, posed stereotypes and cornered them and then set them free and free himself. He inaugurated for his years of life much of what today can be harvested from the Argentine feminist and LGBTI movement. In her, in her story, in her body, in her suicide, also in this book she continues to liberate everyone even more. 

Comments
1 Comments

Tags: Casa Brandon , Dory , Effy , Effy Beth , Elizabeth Mía Chorubczyck , La Iguana , La Mariposa , Matías Máximo
Avatar
Daniela moran

https://www.lanacion.com.ar/lifestyle/el-suicidio-de-su-hijaentendi-en-ese-momento-que-a-pesar-del-amor-incondicional-y-profundo-por-ella-nid10102023/

http://www.nuestrasvoces.com.ar/mujeres-en-lucha/effy-beth-la-activista-trans-que-volvio-de-la-muerte-con-un-libro-inedito

https://twitter.com/NuestrasVocesOK/status/1369810949364912132

https://www.pagina12.com.ar/diario/suplementos/soy/1-3376-2014-04-04.html

https://agenciapresentes.org/2016/12/26/libros-mundo-tiemble-memorias-effy/

https://feminacida.com.ar/effy-beth-y-el-deseo-de-ser/

https://www.luserrano.com/effy-ac-dc

https://peoplepill.com/people/effy-beth

https://es.wikipedia.org/wiki/Effy_Beth

https://www.mutualart.com/Artist/Effy-Beth/F7CFD6E07E3FD6B0/Biography

