Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-21T17:42:12+00:00

====== Gianna Lombardi (Andria - 18 Jan 2021) ======
Created Thursday 21 January 2021
@uncategorised


Gianna Lombardi
48
https://www.facebook.com/Vladimirluxuriaofficial/posts/255569205926340
18 Jan 2021
Andria
Barletta-Andria-Trani
Italy
not reported


poster read "Zingaro Nicola si uinisce al dolore che ha colpito la famiglia Lombardi per la perdita del caro amato Giovanni. Andria, 19 Gennaio 2021"

"Zingaro Nicola uinifies the pain that struck the Lombardi family for the loss of the dearly beloved Giovanni. Andria, January 19, 2021"


Gianna lived in poverty, in a home without heating or light. Her family erased her identity.



Transphobia, a woman dies but a man is on the posters. Luxuria and Taffo correct the shot in memory of Gianna
ITALY
Wednesday 20 January 2021 by Roberta Savona
2 thousand
Gianna died in Andria, but on the poster there is a man's name.  Case of Transphobia in Puglia
A case of transphobia in the city of Andria where Gianna died, a transgender person who is remembered by her family on funeral posters with a man's name, which we will not repeat. The first to denounce the gesture is Vladimir Luxuria  through a tweet, telling what happened with the commitment and disdain for the new case of transphobia that took place in Puglia. Luxuria writes: «A transgender person, Gianna, indigent and discarded by society, dies in Andria. The family decides to put up funeral posters with his male name (which I prefer not to repeat). An offense to the name and identity with which everyone knew her ». Vladimir is answered by Riccardo Pirrone , SMM ofTaffo Funeral Services , funeral agency known for its ability to comment on reality with irony, ready to redo the posters and spread them virally on the net, in response to the transphobic gesture.

Gianna was in ruins and had never been accepted by her family. The poster posted in the city is a confirmation of all the hatred and intolerance that the so-called "loved ones" had for her. Unjustifiable feelings, which the family has seen fit to express also in this last act concerning his life. Vladimir met the woman some time ago, during a debate on civil rights and homotransphobia in the city. Gianna was in the audience and as often happens at the end of the debates, the audience was asked to intervene. Among the voices that of Gianna rose, remembered by Luxuria to the Messenger with sincere condolences: “As she spoke it was clear to everyone that she no longer wanted to be insulted. He asked for a hearing, a council house. I was struck by the dignity of his person, which does not depend on social class or gender identity - it is something much deeper, like those eyes of his mixed with rimmel and tears. After the debate I wanted to get to know her better, I realized she was a person who had been through all sorts of things. Feeling rejected by everyone, she had found refuge in alcohol and today, unfortunately, I received the news of her death and also of these absurd funeral posters. I wanted to testify to my closeness to a person "discriminated by the square". Because of her sexual orientation but also because one cannot live in a house without heating or electricity., concludes Vladimir.

Among the thousands of comments on Taffo's post  who shared the correct version of the manifesto on his page, the comment of a fellow citizen stands out who confirms: «I'm from Andria, I knew and saw her every day. Working in a funeral home before, I talked to my former colleagues and they too had problems making condolence posters because they wanted everything male from the family. Unfortunately the family has never accepted her ... and it is precisely for this reason that she suffered » . The Mayor Giovanna Bruno also expressed herself in memory of Gianna , declaring:«Our city has many fragile people. Fragility of various kinds, with stories that even come from afar, different from each other but with a common denominator: suffering, loneliness, sadness, social or physical precariousness. The city is sometimes indignant, sometimes it rejects. In some cases it is supportive, in others it acts as a judge. Stories of life on which so many claim the right to intervene to sentence. I sadly learn that one of these city fragilities no longer exists: Gianna. I learn from her neighbors, who have helped her many times in silence, that a bad fall has destroyed her existence. With his departure the wall of prejudices against him falls, the culture of waste falls. But what do we do now that it's gone? How many other Gianna does our Community know, which must be taken on by the institutions? Gianna stopped me a few days after I took office. She was looking for accommodation but she told me that no one wanted to sign her. He had financial support from social services but his worry was the house. This I learned about her from her story. She would come to see me, she wanted to speak, be heard. Today, the news of his disappearance ".

The Parish of San Riccardo, where the funeral will take place - at 4pm today, Wednesday 20 January - is in an isolated area, as are the posters, far from the church. On paper, that name does not do justice to the story of a woman who has no faults, if not that of having tried with all her might to be herself.


"Using her male name is an offense to the identity with which everyone knew her": this is how @taffofuneralservices decided to offer her enormous media exposure for the last, and most respectful, greeting to GIANNA, the transgender person of Andria passed away in recent days apparently due to an accidental fall on which investigations are still underway by the Carabinieri. Gianna's family had a funeral poster posted with her name in the registry office: Gianni Lombardi. A fact that did not escape the attention of many and then passed through the hands of former parliamentarian Vladimir Luxuria. Who reported the incident as damaging Gianna's identity. Thus TAFFO, a funeral agency with an unprecedented and accentuated social vocation and, now we can say, a marked human sensitivity,



M.at the age of 49 Gianna. Born in Prato, she arrives in Andria with her family and here she will remain there, more or less permanently, until yesterday when an ambulance of 118 from her home in the historic center urgently transferred her to the emergency room of the local hospital. .

His was not an easy life. A woman imprisoned in the body of a man at the center of episodes caused by prejudice. For everyone, Mery Lombardi will remain  : that's what she wanted to be called.

The Mayor gave official news of his death with a message on social media: «Our city has many fragile people. Fragility of various kinds, with stories that come from afar. Very different stories but often with a common denominator: suffering, loneliness, sadness, social or physical precariousness.

Faced with this, the city is sometimes indignant, sometimes it rejects. In some cases it is supportive, in others it acts as a judge. Stories of life, on which many claim the right to intervene to sentence, to create supporters or to exploit.

I sadly learn that one of these city fragilities no longer exists: Gianna . I learn from her neighbors, who have helped her many times in silence, that a bad fall has destroyed her existence. With his departure the wall of prejudice against him falls, the culture of waste falls.

But what do we do now that it's gone? How many other Gianna does our Community know, which must be taken care of starting from the institutions? Gianna stopped me a few days after I took office. She was looking for accommodation but she told me that no one wanted to sign her.

He had financial support from social services but his worry was the house. This I learned about her from her story. She would come to see me. She wanted to speak, to be heard.






https://www.ilmessaggero.it/italia/transfobia_muore_donna_ma_sui_manifesti_c_un_uomo_luxuria_taffo_correggono_tiro_memoria_di_gianna-5713204.html

https://andria.news24.city/2021/01/20/morte-transgender-gianna-taffo-rifa-il-manifesto-con-il-nome-tutti-conosciuto/

https://www.andrialive.it/news/cronaca/1005170/muore-gianna-il-cordoglio-della-sindaca

https://www.antennasud.com/andria-muore-trans-gianna-parla-luxuria/

EMBED
https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=jZ1xxGEwgCs

https://www.facebook.com/onoranzefunebritaffo/photos/a.796425327129847/3391073934331627/?type=3

20 Jan 2021

A transgender person, Gianna, dies in Andria, destitute because discarded by society. The family decides to put up funeral posters with his male name. An offense to the name and identity with which everyone knew her.

We decided to remake the funeral poster to give her a respectful last farewell.

The funeral will be held today Wednesday 20 January at 16:00 at theParish of San Riccardoin Andria.

We thank Vladimir Luxuria for reporting.
