Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-12T14:05:25+00:00

====== Natasha Kieanna (Detroit - 12 Jan 2021) ======
Created Tuesday 12 January 2021
@missing



Natasha Kieanna
37
https://planettransgender.com/help-find-natasha-kieanna-37-year-old-detroit-transgender-woman/
https://www.fox2detroit.com/news/body-of-missing-transgender-woman-found-inside-car-on-detroits-west-side
12 Jan 2021
Detroit
Michigan
USA
not reported (last seen alive 29 Dec 2020)



Body of Missing Detroit Transgender Woman Natasha Kieanna Found
Trigger Warning. Fox 2 continues to deadname and misgender intentionally disrespectful of the deceased.


The body of Detroit transgender woman Natasha Kieanna was found Tuesday inside her 2005 Saturn Vue on a residential street on the west side.

Natasha Keianna was last seen by her mother on November 28 when she came by for dinner. The police missing person’s report issued on January 6th reported that she was last seen leaving a motel on December 29 in her white Saturn Vue [year unknown], failing to identify the year of her car. The Saturn Vue had distinct body style changes before the line was discontinued in 2010. Her mother described her daughter’s car as having stripes on the side which made her car uniquely identifiable.



Planet Transgender has an image of a 2005 Saturn Vue, nearly identical to the one owned by Natasha Keianna on our missing person article published January 11, 2020.

The person who called the police to report that her car said it had been sitting there for “a couple of weeks” and that he called the police ‘a number of times’ before they came out Tuesday morning.

Natasha’s mother said that a homicide detective came to her home to tell her that her daughter’s body had been found. Police told FOX 2 that her body wasn’t decomposed and there wasn’t any indication of trauma or foul play.

We will not know the cause of death until the Coroner issues their report but it can not be ruled out that Natasha might have been alive when she parked her car.



DETROIT (FOX 2) - The body of a missing transgender woman was found on Detroit's west side Tuesday.

Natasha Keianna had been missing since just after Christmas and was last seen in her white Saturn SUV after leaving a motel at Eight Mile near Greenfield. Today her body was found inside her vehicle at Coyle and Vassar by Detroit police.

On Detroit's west side the body of a missing woman was found by police Tuesday.

Detroit police say the body did not show signs of decomposing that there were no signs of trauma or foul play. The medical examiner will make an official announcement after investigating.

Her mother confirmed that officers made the discovery.

"They identified (her)," her mother said. "I am waiting to go down to the city morgue and homicide came to my house."

A neighbor said that the vehicle had been parked in front of his family's home for about two weeks and said he had called police "a couple of times."

"They finally came out," he said.

Keianna was born William Patterson but is now transgender and identifies as a woman. Her family says she was in good mental and physical condition at the time of her disappearance.

"A week, my baby sat there in the car a week and froze to death," her mother said. "This lady kept calling Detroit police and they never came out."




Help find Natasha Kieanna, 37-year-old Detroit transgender woman

Trigger warning: deadnaming misgendering
Added by Kelli Busey on January 12, 2021.
Saved under General

Help find missing 37-year-old Detroit transgender woman Natasha Kieanna. “I just want to find her if she is still alive” her mother said. The last time she saw her daughter was November 28 when she came by for dinner.

“I just want to find her if she is still alive,” said her mother. “I’ve been calling her cell phone and it just goes to voice mail. That’s not like her at all.”
Natasha Kieanna

Natasha Kieanna

On Dec. 29, the 37-year old was last seen leaving the Cranbrook Detroit motel near Eight Mile and Greenfield where she was living. Police say she left by herself in her own vehicle.

“My child drove a white 2005 Saturn and on the right side of the hood, it’s three black stripes,” her mother said.
Natasha Kieanna

Representational 2005 Saturn Vue

Motel management says before she left she made a payment and left all her belongings inside her room.

According to the Detroit police press release Natasha Kieanna was last seen on Tuesday, December 29, 2020, at approximately 12:26 a.m. at a motel located in the 20500 block of James Couzens. She left the location in her white Saturn Vue (unknown year) and hasn’t been seen or heard from since.

Natasha is 5’7" – 5’8", 130 lbs., brown eyes, sandy brown hair, light complexion, thin build and has unknown tattoos on her stomach and right arm. She was last seen wearing a black jacket, black leggings, and black boots with white soles.

Natasha Kieanna is in good physical/mental condition.

https://planettransgender.com/body-of-missing-detroit-transgender-woman-natasha-kieanna-found/

https://www.fox2detroit.com/news/body-of-missing-transgender-woman-found-inside-car-on-detroits-west-side

https://planettransgender.com/help-find-natasha-kieanna-37-year-old-detroit-transgender-woman/

https://www.facebook.com/detroitpolice/posts/3747722845266893
