Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-11-30T20:47:51+00:00

====== Haley Gabriella Feldmann (Glendive - 12 Nov 2021) ======
Created Tuesday 30 November 2021
@suicide



Haley Gabriella Feldmann
20 [born 18 Nov 2002]
2021_11_21_Haley-Gabriella-Feldmann.jpg
https://www.silhafuneralhomes.com/obituaries/Haley-Feldmann/#!/PhotosVideos/00000000-0000-0000-0000-000000000000/5dbcd077-6ad6-4c2f-b642-56251823cb81
12 Nov 2021
Glendive
Montana
USA
suicide
[funeral home serves Glendive, Wibaux, Richey, Lindsay and Bloomfield Montana and Beach,Medora, Golva and Sentinel Butte, North Dakota]



Haley Gabriella Feldmann was born on November 18, 2002. She was called boy and so we gave her a boy name—now a dead name. We gave her boy clothes, boy toys, boy things. We didn’t know she was our daughter and so we called her son and brother. Haley spent the first several years of her life content, within and without. She knew nothing of judgment or ridicule. She knew nothing but the love of her family, which she gave back in abundance.

During her adolescent years she retreated into herself and we lost her. She became silent . . . distant. She built formidable walls that became impossible to breach, and she stubbornly refused to grant us passage. She had begun to grow afraid of the world as she began to understand herself and who she was, and the reality of her situation became apparent. The more she learned of how the world would judge her for not being who it thought she should be, the more she withdrew. She was an atheist, unable to believe in any religion or deity that taught condemnation of her for not submitting to its beliefs of who she should be. She was a child of God, made perfectly in his image, her body only a vessel for the beautiful soul He created and with which He graced us. She laughed and she loved, and though her humor was dark, her nature was light. Her kindness, her empathy, her hope for others, and her desire to help anyone in need was a blinding light she shone on everyone but herself.

Haley gave us the gift of her truth, trusted us to see beyond her body to her soul, to believe her, and to love her. We will always be grateful for the chance to have her as she was and not who we had thought her to be. Now we call her daughter and sister and we closed ranks around her to protect her and to keep her safe from the willful ignorance that surrounds her.
Our daughter Haley spent most days wreaking havoc on the universe, her time spent being “Imperial Empress of the Galaxies, Conqueror of Solar Systems, Creator of Planets and Nations, Destroyer of Stars”, and loving and adoring Lucy, her best friend and the Best Dog Ever, who loved and adored her in equal measure. She created her own language with a full alphabet and rules, spending years revising and perfecting it, and, in typical Haley fashion, did not leave a key. She created her own maps, detailed in geography, and her own countries, rich in their histories. She dropped out of school and then graduated before her peers, which made her immensely proud. She taught herself history, geography, politics, and never hesitated to school anyone on the finer points of each. And she was usually correct.

Haley lived most comfortably in a Discord community of just under six hundred people from all over the world, each of whom loved and adored her. We are just beginning to learn of her profound impact within the community and we are grateful they had her and she was loved by them. Her soul was radiant there, unhindered by its physical representation here which had become a prison, freeing her to breathe and be.

Haley ended her life on November 12, 2021, her pain being too great. She had grown weary of the knowledge of her reality, knowing this country and this world would never stop trying to force her to submit to its ignorance, and her family rages for her. We would’ve burned the whole world down if we’d thought it would keep her safe, and our fury and outrage is eclipsed only by our grief. We struggle against the currents that try to carry us away from love, for those currents only take us further from her. And she is far enough, already.

Haley is survived by her devastated parents, David and Christina Feldmann; her siblings, Jacob Fruge, Joshua Smith, Ian Feldmann, Matthew Kostelecky, Tristan Smith, Alex Feldmann, Zethan Feldmann, Jazlyn Feldmann, and Sam Curtiss; her grandparents; several aunts, uncles, and cousins; and Lucy, all of whom are inconsolable in the loss of her brilliance, consumed with a grief that has buried us in moments of silence, rage, and sorrow—a void that will never be filled, and a loss that will never be eased. The world is less without her and we will never be the same.

There will be no formal services for Haley. She considered money spent on the dead to be frivolous and of better use elsewhere. Any donations to her family should be sent to The Jim Collins Foundation in hope that a life might be saved. In lieu of thoughts and prayers, her family asks that you be kind to the living and generous with what you have, be it your love, hope, or wealth. Do better unto others as you would have done to you, and reach back to those in need, lift them up, raise them higher, and love love love thy neighbor.


We are sad to announce that on November 12, 2021 we had to say goodbye to Haley Gabriella Feldmann (Glendive, Montana). You can send your sympathy in the guestbook provided and share it with the family. You may also light a candle in honor of Haley Gabriella Feldmann.

She was loved and cherished by many people including : her pet Ever; her parents, David Feldmann and Christina Feldmann; her siblings, Jacob Fruge, Joshua Smith, Ian Feldmann, Matthew Kostelecky, Tristan Smith, Alex Feldmann, Zethan Feldmann, Jazlyn Feldmann and Sam Curtiss; and her cousin Lucy. She was also cherished by her grandparents; several aunts, uncles.

Any donations to her family should be sent to The Jim Collins Foundation in hope that a life might be saved.

FB: https://www.facebook.com/Versal.Nationalist

https://www.silhafuneralhomes.com/obituaries/Haley-Feldmann/

https://www.echovita.com/us/obituaries/mt/glendive/haley-gabriella-feldmann-13727127

https://www.facebook.com/patricia.callaghan.73/posts/10220293635394997
