Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-22T06:18:41+01:00

====== Name Unknown (Perth - 4 Mar 2021) ======
Created Thursday 22 April 2021
@suicide



Name Unknown
15
4 Mar 2021
Perth
Western Australia
Australia
suicide

A 15 year old trans boy died by suicide in Perth (Australia) on 4 Mar 2021.

After his parents couldn't agree on funeral arrangements, he was given two funerals - one in his chosen name, and one in his deadname.

#SayHisName #TransLivesMatter #TDoR


The parents of a transgender teen who died by suicide held two funerals for him because they couldn’t agree on what name to use on his headstone. His mother wanted to use the teen’s actual name while his father wanted to use his deadname.

They even went to court with their dispute and eventually agreed to divide the teen’s ashes in half and hold two funerals for him.

Related: Trans teen dies by suicide after she was “humiliated” by school counselor for wearing a skirt

The 15-year-old trans boy whose name has not been made public died on March 4 in a hospital in Perth, Australia.

He had already started living as a boy and had taken on a new name, but he couldn’t legally change it because Australian law requires transgender minors to get both parents’ approval to correct their documents. And it seems like his father wouldn’t have given permission.

After he died, his father wanted the teen’s tombstone to show his deadname, or the culturally female name he was given at birth that he chose not to use after he started his transition.

His mother said that her son “would hate” to be buried for eternity under that name.



A 15-year-old who tragically died by suicide has been given two separate funerals after his parents argued over his gender in court.

The Perth schoolboy – who cannot be named for legal reasons – died on 4 March in hospital, days after attempting to take his life, Perth Now reported. After his death, the teen’s estranged parents went to the Family Court of Western Australia after they failed to agree on his funeral arrangements, including which name to put on their son’s headstone.

The boy’s father reportedly wanted his son’s deadname – the name assigned to the teen before he came out as trans – on his headstone. But his mother said she wanted to use the name her son chose when he came out as transgender.

The boy’s mother told the West Australian that her son “would hate” to be deadnamed at his memorial. She said: “[His father] wanted all the ashes [interred together] and [his son’s birth name] on the plaque.

“I would agree to have [the birth name] in brackets but his [chosen name] first.”

Eventually, the parents agreed to split their son’s ashes and put both names on any memorial plaques. However, the 15-year-old’s deadname will appear on his death certificate because, before his death, he was unable to legally change it on his birth certificate.


Perth trans teen who took own life has two separate funerals after parents fail to agree on gender
Elizabeth Daoud
Published: 19/04/2021Updated: Tuesday, 20 April 2021 10:41 am AEST
File image of headstones.
File image of headstones. Credit: WHL/Getty Images/Tetra images RF
A transgender boy who died by suicide has been farewelled in two separate funeral services after his estranged parents agreed to split his ashes.

The boy’s parents took the matter to the Family Court after failing to agree on a name for their son’s headstone.

The 15-year-old Perth boy, who cannot be identified, died in hospital on March 4, days after attempting to take his life, The West Australian reports.

Following his death, the boy’s parents couldn’t agree on funeral arrangements, including which name should be put on his headstone: the name he was given at birth or the name he chose for himself before coming out as transgender.

The boy’s mum said she was prepared to take the issue about his name all the way to the Supreme Court, adding her son “would hate” to have the wrong name on his memorial.

File image of headstones.
File image of headstones. Credit: WHL/Getty Images/Tetra images RF
“He (the father) wanted all the ashes (interred together) and (his son’s birth) name on the plaque,” she told the newspaper.

“I would agree to have (the birth name) in brackets but his (chosen name) first.”

His mother added her son fought for his identity and had been worried about which name would be used for his email login when he started a new school.

Eventually the parents agreed to split his ashes and put both names on any memorial plaques.

But 15-year-old’s birth name will be the one written on his death certificate as his name was not legally changed before his death.

Laws in Western Australia don’t allow for children to change their name without both parents’ consent and if only one parent consents, the matter goes to the Family Court.

‘Caring friend’
Loved ones described the 15-year-old as “a good and caring friend who always listened” and an “amazing artist who was great at drawing, painting and make-up”.

When he was 14, the teen was diagnosed with borderline personality disorder but his mum didn’t find out until the day before he died.

His mum said she couldn’t be sure whether knowing about the disorder would have kept him alive but said she would have given him more support.

“He needed more supervision than what he was getting,” she said.

“Risk-taking is part of BPD... if I had just known about the diagnosis ... he was only 14.”

NewsDo we get a public holiday for Anzac Day? A state-by-state breakdown
Before his death, the boy was referred to Perth’s Gender Diversity Service, an outpatient service for children experiencing gender diversity issues.

He had also run away from home and had stopped taking his antidepressant medication.

Just before he passed away, the boy’s mum arrived at hospital to see him.

“I told him I loved him. I said what do I do now and they said I could go home,” she said.




Parents disagree over gender, ashes split in half
Two different ceremonies were held for the trans teenager in Australia, whose family disagreed over their children's funeral procedures.
Parents disagree over gender, ashes split in half
Subscribe
Perth , capital of the state of Western Australia unidentified 15-year-old trans teenager, living in, the, committed suicide on March 4.  

The family had a disagreement about the gender of their children and which name to write on the tombstone.

While the father wanted to use the name written on the identity of his child , the mother chose to use the name that the teenager wanted to take after he became trans .

Under state laws, minors cannot change their names without the consent of both parents.

Before passing away, the trans young been able to legally change.

In addition, the sharing of the teen's ashes also sparked controversy among the parents.

When the parents could not agree on the funeral arrangements, the trial took place.  

Western Australia Family Court the hearing at the, the parents agreed to split the ashes of their children.

On the other hand, the name of the young person on the burial permit, and both names will be included on any plate to be prepared in his memory.

In the court, it was decided to prepare two different funerals and tombstones for the young man.

Source: Independent in Turkish

https://www.lgbtqnation.com/2021/04/parents-held-two-separate-funerals-trans-teen-father-wanted-deadname/

https://www.out.com/transgender/2021/4/21/trans-teen-given-two-funerals-after-father-continues-deadname

https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2021/04/20/transgender-teen-perth-australia-two-funerals-parents-gender-family-court/

https://www.pedestrian.tv/news/perth-trans-teen-funeral-deadname-misgender/

https://7news.com.au/news/wa/perth-trans-teen-who-took-own-life-has-two-separate-funerals-after-parents-fail-to-agree-on-gender-c-2637303

https://thewest.com.au/news/disaster-and-emergency/perth-teen-who-took-own-life-has-two-funerals-after-parents-argue-over-gender-in-court-ng-b881849244z

https://www.cumhuriyet.com.tr/haber/ebeveynleri-cinsiyeti-uzerinde-anlasamadi-kulleri-ikiye-bolundu-1829854

https://web.archive.org/web/20210420000026/https://www.dailymail.co.uk/news/article-9487539/Transgender-schoolboy-took-life-TWO-funerals-parents-argue-gender.html
