Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-02-12T09:48:46+00:00

====== Nicolas (Le Havre - 7 Feb 2021) ======
Created Friday 12 February 2021
@suicide



Nicolas
7 Feb 2021
Le Havre
France
suicide







#France- Le Havre - Suicide of a Young Trans Man

 Nicolas, a language assistant employee at Claude Monet high school, committed suicide on Sunday February 7 because of the #transphobie all over 
@education_gouv
@gouvernementFR


Suicide of a young trans man in Le Havre
 

Following a report,a young trans man in his twenties committed suicide by hanging in his home on Sunday, February 7 in Le Havre.
 

Suicide Jeune Homme Trans Le Havre

Apparently, Nicolas, of Jordanian origin, was an assistant language assistant at Claude Monet High School in Le Havre, and benefited from student accommodation in a flatshare.
 
Again, media and others like Paris Normandie, Le Figaro, Journal L'Alsace, Trend West 14 transphobes have megenized, pathologized, psychiatrized expressly his suicide.
 
But the real cause is the transphobia that trans people experience on a daily basis because of their expression of gender and/or gender identity, which this government still does nothing concrete to enforce their gender identity, their privacy and protect them in school, but also everywhere in all the spheres of French society.
 
An investigation was opened by the prosecutor's office on Monday following his death.
 
"How do you want Trans and/or Non-Binary People to get away with it! Transphobia is everywhere, even in the prosecutor's office, and within the police, it can no longer go on like this, this government must move to stop it."

Nicolas, a young trans man from Le Havre ends his life
February 10, 2021
VSn Sunday February 7, Nicolas, of Jordanian origin, hanged himself in Le Havre. In his twenties, he was found in his dorm room hanged.

Megenre
(photo by Kyle from Unsplash)
He was not a student, but he had shared student accommodation. Nicolas was a language assistant for the Claude Monet high school in Le Havre.

Questioned by AFP, the public prosecutor indicated that he was in "psychological suffering" . Nicolas, a trans person, consulted a psychiatrist and "would have started procedures for an operation" in order to match his sex and gender. The police services also tell AFP that he would have had "dark thoughts" . He left a letter in his room.

Police and judicial sources seem to draw a parallel between his transition process and his suicide. However, the ill-being of trans people like Nicolas is most often linked to the discrimination and mockery of society that initiates a transition process. Lack of solidarity and rejection remain the main causes of ill-being.

This is my type
(photo for illustration: Delia Giandeini from Unsplash)
Denying gender identity remains violence
The suicide rate in the LGBT community remains higher for cisgender * and heterosexual people. In this regard, the suicide of a transgender person in Lille last December had caused a stir in the media and the political class.

At the same time, it is regrettable that the local and national press, like AFP, do not respect, once again, the gender of the deceased. The social networks and the trans community is to have echoed reminding journalists to respect the kind of Nicolas. To conceive of a trans person remains a violence. It is to refuse its identity and therefore to deny its reality.

This is why local and national associations are calling for more training and awareness raising towards the public and professionals.



https://gayviking.fr/nicolas-un-jeune-homme-trans-du-havre-met-fin-a-ses-jours/

https://www.sos-transphobie.org/suicide-d-un-jeune-homme-trans-au-havre

https://www.facebook.com/lautrequotidien.fr/posts/3849288018493553
