Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-03-30T21:49:17+01:00

====== Piper Autumn Rivers (Las Vegas - 22 Mar 2021) ======
Created Tuesday 30 March 2021
@suicide




Piper Autumn Rivers (Tegan Toxik/Tegan Last)
35
2021_03_22_Piper-Autumn-Rivers.jpg
https://www.grooby.com/fallenangels/uncategorized/tegan-toxik-rest-in-peace
22 Mar 2021
Las Vegas
USA
suicide


Adult model/performer died of suicide on 2021-03-22
(article was posted on 2021-03-26 and states death was on Monda

I received sad news earlier this week that Tegan Toxik/Tegan Last, took her own life on Monday evening.  

Tegan first worked with us in 2016 on Femout and I met her a few months later when she accompanied a friend to a photoshoot even for nominees prior to the 2017 TEA Awards – and I encouraged her to get her photos taken also, which she was excited about.  I only met her a few times, but if I had to sum her up in one word, it would be that she was very ‘sweet’.Tegan’s work continued with us on other sites  – appearing in scenes at the end of 2020.  

She worked with us the Friday before her death, with producer Radius Dark, who described her as ‘one of the sweetest, nicest people I’ve met in the industry‘.

It always comes as a shock when someone so young, with so many friends and who seemed to be moving forward with her life, ends it so suddenly and tragically.  I know she was well liked among the community, and many models counted her as a friend – as seen by their many tributes and celebrations of her left on social media. Tegan was a disabled veteran of the Army, having served in Afghanistan and had been living in Las Vegas in recent years, where she had many friends and was part of the trans adult community, co-creating content as well as working on her own content.

Dan Hogue, Director of Operations at Transerotica was called to Tegan’s house shortly after her death and has been instrumental along with other friends, in assisting and giving support to Tegan’s partner, Jean.  “We are all hurting and are confused with this loss of a friend. There is an emptiness among many.  We may never know the reason why. There is help for those that need it.   Let the overall message be to seek assistance! Never be afraid to ask for help, reach out to a fellow performer or colleague. There is also anonymous resources available in Pineapple Support and other trusted folks in the industry that would always drop what they are doing and make time for you.”

All of us at Grooby, pass on our love, our respect and condolences to her partner, her family and  her friends, and to the many performers who worked with Tegan.  I’ll continue to remember her as that sweet, lovely girl I met sitting on the sofa, at the TEA photoshoot.  

She will be missed by many.

Tegan was 35 when she died.

There is a fundraiser to cover the costs of funeral and memorial expenses for Piper as well as cover any existing debts and to allow her partner to cover her living expenses while dealing with whatever changes or moves she has to make.


On March 22nd. 2021, Piper Rivers (Tegan Toxik) passed away.

We're raising funds to cover the costs of funeral and memorial expenses for Piper as well as cover any existing debts and to allow her partner to cover her living expenses while dealing with whatever changes or moves she has to make.


Tegan was passionate, enthusiastic, as eclectic in her taste as she was in love with the experiences and people she cherished the most. Her love, unrestricted; Tegan could not help but to create, to learn and share her passions with all she met. Meeting new people, making new friends was Tegan's way, leaving all she encountered with an undeniable sense of her unbound sweetness.

Tegan had an unwavering love for music and was drawn most closely to those who shared an appreciation for free expression, creativity and perhaps most importantly, laughter. Those who knew Tegan, knew laughter and were forever blessed to hear hers.




LOS ANGELES — Performer Tegan Toxik, 35, passed away at her home Monday, March 22, according to her colleagues at Grooby. Also known simply as "Tegan," she was discovered in 2016 and appeared in scenes for the company through the end of 2020.

"I only met her a few times, but if I had to sum her up in one word, it would be that she was very sweet," wrote Grooby founder Steven Grooby in an online tribute.

"It always comes as a shock when someone so young, with so many friends, and who seemed to be moving forward with her life, ends it so suddenly and tragically. I know she was well-liked among the community, and many models counted her as a friend — as seen by their many tributes and celebrations of her left on social media," said Grooby.

"Tegan was a disabled veteran of the Army, having served in Afghanistan and had been living in Las Vegas in recent years, where she had many friends and was part of the trans adult community, co-creating content as well as working on her own content," he added.

Producer Radius Dark described her as "one of the sweetest, nicest people I’ve met in the industry."

Dan Hogue, director of operations for Transerotica, has been giving support to Tegan's partner.

“We are all hurting and are confused with this loss of a friend. We may never know the reason why. There is help for those that need it," he said. "Let the overall message be to seek assistance. Never be afraid to ask for help, reach out to a fellow performer or colleague. There are also anonymous resources available in Pineapple Support and other trusted folks in the industry that would always drop what they are doing and make time for you."

A GoFundMe page has been established to help defray immediate expenses.

"All of us at Grooby, pass on our love, our respect and condolences to her partner, her family and her friends, and to the many performers who worked with Tegan," Grooby said.




When I first met Piper, I was awestruck by her beauty, and as I got to know her further, I was amazed at just how much that beauty was a reflection of her soul. She had a brilliantly creative mind and, despite challenges, brought those creations to life.

She was intelligent and charismatic; I always found courage when she was with me and felt we could accomplish anything we set our minds to.
She had a way of making people smile, be it humor, presence, personality, or compassion, it all seemed effortless to her. We gravitated toward her and found ourselves among comfort; the definition of a friend.

No matter the medium, her artistry showed through. I watched her demonstrate true craft in her music, drawing and painting, only to pick up something new for fun and excel in whatever it was she adopted.

I've never known anyone in my life as well as I've come to know Piper. She's precious to me. She's my best friend, my partner, my soulmate, and one of the most exceptionally beautiful and compassionate people I've ever and will ever have known. She made a clear and positive mark on the people around her and affected all of us in a way we will cherish for the rest of our lives.
I will always keep her in my heart and celebrate the blessing she brought me.

Piper, we love you.

-Ophelia

Twitter: https://twitter.com/TeganToxik

https://planettransgender.com/trans-woman-piper-rivers-tegan-toxik-passed-away

https://www.grooby.com/fallenangels/uncategorized/tegan-toxik-rest-in-peace

https://www.xbiz.com/news/258189/performer-tegan-toxik-passes-away

https://avn.com/business/articles/video/performer-tegan-toxik-dies-gofundme-set-up-for-final-expenses-899776.html

https://www.gofundme.com/f/piper-autumn-rivers-memorial-fund

https://twitter.com/DavidOldham4/status/1376825340908158978

https://twitter.com/xsamanthaxhallx/status/1375816666706239493
