Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-02-12T09:00:26+00:00

====== Sneha (Kannur - 9 Feb 2021) ======
Created Friday 12 February 2021



Sneha
36
2021_02_09_Sneha.jpg
https://www.facebook.com/v4transright/posts/776267962924262
9 Feb 2021
Samajwadi colony, Thottada
Kannur
Kerala
India
suicide


Sneha K, trans activist, humanitarian extraordinar dies by self-immolation
Added by Kelli Busey on February 10, 2021.


Transgender woman Sneha K, died Tuesday evening from burns apparently inflicted by self-immolation at her home in the Samajwadi colony in Thottada, Kannur, India.

Sneha made history this year as a first-time transgender candidate, one of those that made history shattering India’s lavender ceilings. But her untold story is that she was also a passionate activist in the farmers’ protests.

Police told the Hindu that the initial investigation indicated her death was a suicide, more details would be revealed after further investigation.

Social activist and environmentalist Vinod Payyada, expressing his grief saying that she was in forefront of the farmers’ protest. “Her demise is an unfortunate incident,” he added. Thousands of farmers have taken their lives in a similar fashion to bring attention to their desperate plight.

“I have been living in the colony for several years,” said Sneha K during a December 2020 interview. “I know the people here and they know me,” said Sneha. She said in every election, candidates from various parties visit the colony and make promises to the residents.”

“However, nothing substantial has been done in Kizhunna so far. The roads are in pathetic condition, there is severe water scarcity especially during summer, and the elderly and other deserving groups are being denied pension. People would like a change so that development, in its true sense, takes place here. Change is needed so that people get to enjoy the benefits of local self-governance,” said Sneha.

She said she has been campaigning hard with some supporters since the day she filed her nomination papers. “I am getting people’s love and consideration wherever I go. People are complaining about the lack of streetlights and a dispensary here,” she said.

She alleged that during the early days of the pandemic, residents of the colony were seen as a “wretched lot by all” and even government officials did not care about their problems. “Whether I win or lose is another matter. Whatever happens, I will work with the people of Kizhunna,” she said.

Sneha K, who ran in Kizhunna, ward 36, died on the way to the hospital. Her body is kept at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital. The incident took place on Tuesday evening.

The Farmers protests were up to now kept from outside attention by Modi sponsored internet blackouts. Already stricken by a fragmented regulatory system the Modi government is bent on making it worse for farmers and more profitable for unscrupulous corporate profiteers.

International pop star Rihanna on Tuesday extended her support to the farmers protesting on the outskirts of Delhi against the centre’s agricultural laws, condemning the internet shutdown aimed at crippling the movement. “Why aren’t we talking about this?! #FarmersProtest​,” tweeted the ‘Don’t Stop The Music’ singer, who has more than 100 million followers on Twitter, along with a news article about the internet blockade.


The only transgender, who contestant as independent candidate in the local election in the State died after she reportedly ended life in Kannur.

According to police, the deceased Sneha, a transgender woman, residing in the Samajwadi colony in Thottada, suffered burns while at her home and she died on the way to the hospital. Her body is kept at the Kannur Government Medical College Hospital. The incident took place on Tuesday evening.

Though the primary investigation concluded it as a suicide, more details would be revealed only after further investigation, police added.

The deceased was the only transgender woman who contested during the local body in the State. She contested from Kizhunna, ward 36 in Kannur Corporation.

A social activist, who strongly voiced for the upliftment of the transgender and their rights, she entered the maiden election fray with a hope to change the situation in her colony and in the ward.

Social activist and environmentalist Vinod Payyada, expressing his grief said that she was in forefront of all protest including the farmers protest recently. Her demise is an unfortunate incident, he added.



KANNUR: K Sneha, 34, the lone transgender woman who had contested in the recent local body elections in the state, died of burns following a self-immolation bid in front of her house at Thottada Samjwadi colony here on Tuesday night.

Sneha had stood as an independent candidate from Kizhunna ward of Kannur Corporation. Her candidature attracted wide media attention, especially during the campaigning period. 

According to eyewitnesses, she came out of her house at 10pm, poured kerosene over her head and set herself ablaze. Sneha, who lived with husband Rajesh and parents Suleiman and Kochamma, was employed in the construction sector.

She also worked in catering and was a member of the transgender Kudumbashree unit. Edakkad police, who have registered a case of unnatural death, said family issues were behind her extreme step. 



K Sneha stood as an independent candidate for ward number 36 of local body the Kannur Municipal Corporation, attracting widespread media attention as the sole trans candidate.

She was a social activist who spoke loudly for the advancement of trans rights in India. Sneha also fought for better living conditions and for improvements to the infrastructure of her community.

According to reports, Sneha died on Tuesday night (9 February). Police said the primary investigation concluded Sneha’s death as a suicide, and more details would be revealed after further investigation. 

The New Indian Express reported that eyewitnesses saw Sneha leave her house at 10pm on Tuesday, shortly before she died outside of it. According to the article, Edkkah police said her death was linked to family issues. 

Sneha lived with her husband Rajesh and parents Suleiman and Kochamma. She worked in catering and was a member of the transgender Kudumbashree unit.

K Sneha was hopeful for change.
Sneha told The Hindu in November that she saw her candidacy as an opportunity to work closely with the local people and improve the situation in their ward. She said candidates representing political parties “have ignored the region for long”. 

“This prompted me to enter the fray,” she said at the time. 

Sneha described how the ward residents lived in unhygienic conditions, there were no proper drainage systems and the roads were decrepit. She said that after undergoing gender affirmation surgery in 2019, she felt more confident in herself. Sneha said she had put off the surgery for so long because of years of social neglect and stigma.

She said: “I feel more confident now, and I am sure that people will accept me and give me an opportunity to serve them.

“It is a beginning, and my effort to serve people will continue whether I win or not.”



https://planettransgender.com/sneha-k-trans-activist-humanitarian-extraordinar-dies-by-self-immolation

https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2021/02/11/k-sneha-trans-woman-election-candidate-india-suicide/

https://keralakaumudi.com/en/news/news.php?id=489061&u=transgender-who-contested-local-body-polls-commits-suicide

https://www.thehindu.com/news/national/kerala/transgender-woman-who-contested-in-corporation-election-ends-life/article33799450.ece
