Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2023-02-15T08:32:15+00:00

====== Ruby Ferrer (Carabayllo - 14 Feb 2023) ======
Created Wednesday 15 February 2023
@violence




Ruby Ferrer [Juan Anibal Torres Silvano]
2023_02_14_J-A-Torres-Silvano.jpg
https://elcomercio.pe/lima/asesinan-a-trabajadora-sexual-trans-por-extorsion-en-jiron-zepita-cercado-de-lima-noticia/
14 Feb 2023
Avenida Santo Domingo
Las Dalias
Carabayllo
Lima
Peru
shot

'Sex mafias' kidnap and gun down a transsexual for refusing to leave the street in downtown Lima
The assassins recorded the moment in which they shot at the body of Juan Aníbal Torres Silvano on an avenue in Carabayllo. The day before, a similar crime occurred in Chorrillos.
By

Carlos Alexander Espinoza

February 14, 2023
'Sex mafias' kidnap and gun down a transsexual
'Sex mafias' kidnap and gun down a transsexual (América Noticias)
The war for the collection of quotas for sex workers in the center of Lima continues to claim fatalities. Early Monday morning, a transgender person was kidnapped in a car with tinted windows and was later killed with at least 15 bullets on Santo Domingo Avenue, Las Dalias Association, in the Carabayllo district .

These are the areas of downtown Lima where demonstrations are prohibited
These are the areas of downtown Lima where demonstrations are prohibited
The Lima Metropolitan Council agreed to declare more than 10 kilometers as an intangible zone in order to protect the city, as it is listed as Cultural Heritage of the Nation and Cultural Heritage of Humanity.
SEE NOTE

As a way of terrorizing other sex workers who do not obey their orders, the murderers recorded the crime on video and, without caring about waking up the neighbors, shot the body of "Rubí" or Juan Aníbal Torres Silvano, 31, on the track . of age and who offered his services to him in the Chancay jirón of the Center of Lima.

“Just so you know, did you hear? You're leaving... that... plaza", someone who records the event with one hand and shoots with the other is heard saying. An alleged accomplice of the murderer also appears in the recording.

Criminalistics experts and representatives of the second Prosecutor's Office specializing in violence against women arrived in the area to lift the body.

Valentine's Day (Freepik)
February 14: Where to spend Valentine's Day in Lima?
The Peruvian capital gives you seven options to surprise your partner on this special day.
SEE NOTE

It should be noted that, early Sunday morning, another similar crime occurred against 'Priscila', 30 , whose body was found dying in Chorrillos with multiple bullets and died shortly after.

'Rubí's' body will be transferred to Iquitos to be buried by his relatives.  (American TV)
'Rubí's' body will be transferred to Iquitos to be buried by his relatives. (American TV)
venezuelan mafia
According to the testimony of other sex workers, the murderers would be a Venezuelan mafia that seeks to expel the Peruvians from Jirón Chancay, Zepita and other streets in downtown Lima so that they are occupied only by Venezuelans and for this they send them videos and audios with threats of death.

"The underworld, the underworld... they are all leaving the center of Lima or we are going to continue killing them one by one... you heard damn c... from your mother", is heard in one of the audios.

In addition, days before the murder of 'Priscila', she had an altercation with another Venezuelan sex worker who had just arrived in the area and who was asked to leave.

Man is murdered and hitmen leave a message.  Photo: ATV
They murder a man with more than 20 bullets in Huachipa and leave a message: "The first one has already fallen, you decide"
According to the first investigations by the National Police, this case would also be about a settling of scores.
SEE NOTE

“Since that conflict began, they have started to kill,” a Peruvian sex worker told Latina Noticias .

Over the weekend, the serenade of the Lima commune and a member of the Police carried out an operation against prostitution in the Zepita jirón, in the Center of the Capital, however, the citizens demand to find the heads of the network dedicated to the extortion.

The Zepita jirón and its surroundings, in the center of Lima, is one of the points with the greatest presence of prostitutes.
The Zepita jirón and its surroundings, in the center of Lima, is one of the points with the greatest presence of prostitutes.
Mafia 'The Gallegos'
Para la Policía, estos crímenes y otros similares ocurridos en los últimos meses estarían siendo perpetrados por la mafia denominada ‘Los Gallegos’.

“‘Los Gallegos’ se encuentran detrás de estas maniobras extorsivas tanto a damas que ejercen la prostitución como a transexuales”, señaló el coronel de la PNP Víctor Revoredo, jefe de investigación de homicidios de la Dirincri.

“Primero las someten a maniobras extorsivas o les piden que se retiren del lugar”, añadió.

También indicó que los asesinatos de ‘Priscila’ y ‘Rubí’ estarían asociados por sus similares características. Ambas trabajadoras sexuales fueron secuestradas, llevadas a un lugar alejado (Chorrillo y Carabayllo), baleadas y su cuerpo fue abandonado.

To combat these crimes, PNP Colonel Víctor Revoredo specified that they have been working with the Municipality of Lima to prevent prostitution, while, on the other hand, the Homicide Investigation Division is conducting case inquiries to find the perpetrators. of the crimes.



Carabayllo: man murders a trans woman with 31 bullets and records the moment
According to the police report, it would be a crime carried out by quota collection mafias in an area of Cercado de Lima where prostitution abounds.
This event happened in the early morning of February 14. Photo: Capture America TV
Updated 02/14/2023 12:29 PM m.

In Carabayllo, a new case of assassination has left a balance of a trans woman dead from 31 bullet wounds. Investigations by the Peruvian National Police (PNP) show that the victim, who answers to Juan Anibal Torres Silvano, was kidnapped and was taken to the mentioned jurisdiction to be murdered.

YOU MAY BE INTERESTED : 'Josesito', 'Bicho', 'Aché' and 'Willy' are the hitmen who riddled 'La Tota'
They murder a trans who refused to pay quotas
As if that were not enough, the murderer had no mercy and recorded the exact moment in which a burst of bullets hit the body of a 30-year-old transgender person.

This murder happened at 3 in the morning on avenida Santo Domingo, in the Las Dalias association. According to the Police, the victim identified as Juan Aníbal Torres Silvano was kidnapped from her and then taken to this place in a car with tinted windows.

The gunman was not alone. In the recording he made, he revealed his accomplice just at the moment he opened fire.

Neighbors woke up to the sound of gunshots. Leaving their homes they found the horrifying scene. Criminalistics experts arrived hours later, as did a representative of the Second Specialized Prosecutor for Violence against Women and the members of the family group.

Over the weekend, the Police and the Serenazgo of the Lima commune carried out an operation against prostitution in the Zepita jirón; However, the neighbors demand to find the heads of the network dedicated to extortion in these areas.

https://www.infobae.com/peru/2023/02/14/mafias-del-sexo-secuestran-y-acribillan-a-transexual-por-negarse-a-dejar-calle-del-centro-de-lima/

https://larepublica.pe/sociedad/2023/02/14/carabayllo-mafia-secuestra-acribilla-mujer-trans-por-cobro-de-cupos-delincuencia-banda-delincuencial-inseguridad-ciudadana-mdga-457702

https://elpopular.pe/actualidad/noticias-peru/2023/02/14/carabayllo-mafia-rapta-asesina-mujer-trans-se-nego-abandonar-jr-zepita-cercado-lima-trabajar-591052

https://elcomercio.pe/lima/asesinan-a-trabajadora-sexual-trans-por-extorsion-en-jiron-zepita-cercado-de-lima-noticia/

https://trome.com/actualidad/policiales/carabayllo-hombre-asesina-a-mujer-trans-con-31-balazos-y-graba-el-momento-historia-de-policiales-pnp-crimen-trcm-noticia/
