Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2022-11-24T21:16:11+00:00

====== Finn Hall (Huddersfield - 18 Nov 2022) ======
Created Thursday 24 November 2022
@suicide


Finn Hall
16
2022_11_18_Finn-Hall.jpg
https://www.examinerlive.co.uk/news/local-news/huddersfield-trans-teenager-takes-life-25587458.amp
18 Nov 2022
Huddersfield
United Kingdom
suicide



Huddersfield trans teenager takes his own life as heartbroken family pay tribute
Finn Hall had struggled with his mental health for several years

SHARE
BY JASMINE NORDEN
05:00, 24 NOV 2022 UPDATED06:27, 24 NOV 2022

A Huddersfield family has been left heartbroken after their 16-year-old son took his own life after struggling for years with his mental health.

Finn Hall, who had lived in Huddersfield most of his life until his family moved to Keighley last year, was hoping to spend his life helping others. He was studying health and social care with aspirations of working with children with learning difficulties.

On Friday, November 18, his mum, Hannah, went up to his bedroom. She was devastated to find that after years of struggling with his mental health, Finn had tragically hanged himself.

Finn was in the process of transitioning from female to male after coming out to his family earlier this year.

Finn's aunt, Abigail Ford, told YorkshireLive : "We're all absolutely devastated and heartbroken. Finn's life has been taken far too young.

"We're all shocked at the severity of what happened. We've all looked online and been shocked at how easy it is to find information on how to take your own life.

"It was clear Finn had planned this. He'd brought us all Christmas presents early. His mum found him - she's never going to get that image out of her head.

"His baby brother keeps asking when he's coming home. It's devastating and it shouldn't have happened. It's not fair."

Abigail said Finn had started struggling with his mental health at the age of 11 when he began battling an eating disorder. From around the age of 13, Finn was struggling so much he began to self-harm.

He was hospitalised several times, and his family were desperate to find him support. But Finn continued to struggle.

"He was taking overdoses and drinking bleach," Abigail, 30, said. "We feel like not enough was done to help him when his symptoms were so severe."

Finn and his mum Hannah(Image: Submitted by family)
Finn, who was the second of five children, spent much of his free time volunteering at a local youth club and working as a carer. He regularly took part in raising money for the youth club.

"He was a really kind and caring person," Abigail added. "He always liked to make people smile. He didn't like people being sad around him.

"He was bright and clever and loved to learn - he had such a promising future ahead of him. He was the loveliest boy - he was very handsome and had lovely blue eyes."

Finn came out to his family earlier this year and was transitioning from a girl.

Finn spent his free time volunteering and working as a carer(Image: Submitted by family)
Abigail said: "He had the strength and the courage to tell us in February that he didn't feel like a girl and he'd felt like that as early as he could remember. He'd never liked to wear dresses and always wanted to wear boy's clothes.

"The more and more he grew up he met people going through similar things and he worked out for himself and realised he didn't feel comfortable in that body - because he shouldn't be in it, he should be a boy.

"He's been known as Finn ever since - it was accepted by everybody in the family. He seemed a lot happier as Finn. He'd spoken to doctors about it and was getting referred to a transgender clinic, though there was a waiting list."

Abigail and Finn's mum Hannah are hoping to raise awareness of mental health and encourage people to take teenagers struggling seriously.

Finn had been struggling with his mental health since the age of 11(Image: Submitted by family)
According to mental health charity Young Minds, suicide rates for people aged 15-19 increased by 35% from 2020 to 2021 from analysis of Office for National Statistics data. 198 young people took their own lives in 2021 - the highest number in 30 years.

Transgender young people can be particularly vulnerable and have historically reported higher levels of mental ill health, according to charity Mermaids. A report by Stonewall found that 92% of young transgender people have struggled with suicidal thoughts, and 45% have tried to take their own lives.

"If your child is struggling, don't take no for an answer," Abigail said. "Mental health services should have given him more support, we think he wasn't taken seriously enough."

Abigail has set up a GoFundMe page to help raise money so Finn's family can give him a proper send-off. You can donate by clicking here.

https://www.examinerlive.co.uk/news/local-news/huddersfield-trans-teenager-takes-life-25587458.amp

https://www.gofundme.com/f/finn-hall-used-to-be-known-as-summer-hall
