Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-20T20:52:23+01:00

====== Bruna Toro (Campo Grande -10 Jul 2015) ======
Created Tuesday 20 October 2020
@update



Bruna Toro
10 Jul 2015
stabbed

ref: https://tdor.translivesmatter.info/reports/2015/07/09/bruna-toro_campo-grande-mato-grosso-do-sul--brazil_3d550eeb


 

It was selling my body on the street that I suffered rape and "killed" a transvestite
"Bad things can happen to good people. And if you just look at the evil, it is the one who will be looking back at you"
By Raul Delvizio | 10/20/2020 06:46

At 25, Cíntia * is a trans woman doing a program in the interior of MS (Photo: Personal Archive)
When pain is more present than love, what can we get out of this life? Cíntia * suffered a lot in a quarter of her life. She has already lost her father, had problems with her stepfather, went through not only one, but two rapes, and was arrested on charges of having killed her street companion. At 25, the innocent transsexual woman and prostitute on the streets of a city in the interior of MS says she feels "prepared for whatever comes in this life".

In the Voice of Experience she told how life ended everything. What about the teaching? Today it is about inner strength, and it is possible to move mountains.


"This is not the only pain of my life, but it is my biggest trauma" (Photo: Personal Archive)
"My name is Cíntia *, I am a 25 year old transvestite. My story starts at the age of 7, when I lived in the countryside. My father worked at a freight company. One day he went on a trip to the Capital and gave a ride to a 'lost' on the road. It was the mistake of his life. The guy announced the assault. My father deviated the route and ended up on a farm near Campo Grande. The thug asked for money for the ransom, which we didn't have - and the company didn't want to help. My father was stuck on a pole for three days, blindfolded, eating nothing or drinking water. The truck was taken to the chopping block in Paraguay. Since the requested money was not delivered, they shot my father in the head and threw his body into a dump. It was found 4 days later by beggars. This is not the only pain of my life, but it is my biggest trauma, You know? I haven't gotten over it yet.

After my father's death, my mother got a male and moved to the farm with my sisters. I stayed in the city with my aunt and older brother to study. There was a day when my stepfather said to pay some bills here, but he actually escaped. Do you know those indoor parties that last the whole weekend? He went on one and came back finished and with a black eye from the husband of a married woman that he was chatting about. But he went there again to take revenge. He took a gun and shot the guy who had beaten him.


It was at the age of 17 that Cíntia * assumed to be gay for the family (Photo: Personal Archive)
It was hell. My mother had to put the house up for sale at a bargain price just to pay a lawyer for the fret. Thinking of retaliation, the family of the deceased began to threaten mine. We left. I was 15 years old.

At 17 I assumed I was gay for my family. My mother thought it was the influence of the friendships I had. At that time, two friends also came out of the closet and ended up becoming - as I am today - trans. Anyway, my mother supported me, always being by my side in the best and worst moments of my life.

I was already living alone with a friend. We were unemployed together when we worked at the Seara factory. With nothing to do, she was the first to throw herself into the world of prostitution in Campo Grande. I waited for my sister to have a baby, took the rest of the money I had and left too, after all, it was my last option.


"I took the rest of the money I had and left, too, after all, it was my last option" (Photo: Personal Archive)
That was when I met Bruna Toro, a transvestite who - as the name said - was as strong and brute as the animal. And a heavy bar, since the police colony was breaking because he was a drug dealer. She started hitting me and stealing, fiddling with my cell phone, purse, money to the point where I couldn't keep up. I made a police report. The truth is that they paid little attention to me, because in the police's head it was as if it were another feud between transvestites. The aggressions and extortions only got worse. There was a day when a friend came to help me, but we both started getting beaten up by her. Toro was really strong. I ran and shouted for the police, precisely because I knew that Bruna was on the run. She left without first telling us that she would be back to end the matter.

She really came back, this time with a knife in her hand. My friends came to my rescue. When they arrived, I was trying to save myself, holding Bruna's hand so as not to hurt me. They all took what they found at the time, stick, stone, anyway, and started to hit it. She slipped and I managed to get the knife. I didn't aim at the pocketknives on her badly, I just wanted her to get off me. It was to defend myself. She got weak, and we all jumped out. I would not have imagined that she would die. So much so that I went back to cafetina, took a shower and still made money that night. But the next day, the police were on our toes.


"My last hearing was two years after the event. I ended up being unanimously cleared by the popular jury" (Photo: Personal Archive)
We ended up being caught in the act. We stayed in jail for four days and only then transferred to the men's penal prison, in the transvestite wing. I thought I was going to leave there in a month, and I would never give my mother disgust at knowing that her daughter was in prison. Still, she found out. He came to Campo Grande, stayed by my side, did everything he could. He paid a lawyer who got me provisional release.

When I was arrested, I thought I would actually be killed. But the people at the heavy bar, with greater power - and who were obviously not the police - said that they would not be 'charging for records', because 'street problems were solved on the street'. Inside, we were supposed to be fine.

My last hearing was two years after it happened. I ended up being acquitted unanimously by the popular jury. I had all the evidence that I had actually asked the police for help before, the bulletins, the phone calls and everything, that I was "sworn" to death by Bruna Toro. And not just me ... "


"He threw everything on the floor, pushed me against a wall and ate me hard" (Photo: Personal Archive)
Violations - "Before this whole thing, I had the experience of being raped. My point was there on Avenida Costa e Silva. I had just started prostituting myself. A guy on a motorcycle showed up and chose me exclusively. He only had the money for the program, not the motel. I said that I knew of a place that nobody would bother us. I walked, and he did not take off his helmet. He drew a pistol with a silencer and forced me to hand over the bag. I had no money, because it would be my first show of the night. He threw everything on the floor, pushed me against a wall and ate me hard. When he finished, he told me to kneel and ask for forgiveness for all my sins, that with the gun against my head. I thought, 'is this how my end will be?'. He said he had three bullets, and that he was going to test his luck. He pressed one, two, and on the third he hit me. I woke up thinking I had died, I came home, I took a shower and I still did a program. It was my only way of survival.

"I woke up thinking that I had died, I came home, I took a shower and I still did a program. It was my only way of survival" (Photo: Personal Archive)
What did I learn from all this? What bad things can happen to good people, but I think to strengthen them, prepare them for what comes in this life. And I feel prepared, I slowly take the weights off my scale. All that I have experienced makes me not judge the pain of the other. Bad things happen, bad people exist. Today, I am a totally different person than I was. My whole family sees me as a person of strong inspiration - and best of all, my mother loves me unconditionally. If I look only at the evil I have experienced in life, it is only he who will be looking back at me ".

* Cíntia is a fictitious name created by the newsroom to preserve the identity of the character and also of third parties.

"What did I learn from all this? What bad things can happen to good people, but I think to strengthen them, prepare them for what comes in this life. And I feel prepared, I slowly take off weights of my scale "(Photo: Personal Archive)






Arrested for killing colleague, 4 transvestites say they were extorted by the victim
By Filipe Prado | 07/13/2015 10:29
Four transvestites were arrested in the act, accused of killing Bruna Toro, 25, last Thursday (9) in Vila Progresso. Bruna was hit by seven stabs and was hospitalized in a serious condition in Santa Casa, dying hours later, after surgery.

The delegate of the 4th Campo Grande Police Station, Célia Bezerra da Silva, pointed out that the victim's sister accompanied her to the hospital, presenting a false name to doctors, being her ex-husband. As the transvestite died, the woman had to report the registration name.

From the identification, the police found the places where Bruna carried out the programs, being in the Center and Rua Estevão Capriata, Vila Progresso. The transvestites, identified as Rafaela, Giovana, Fernanda and Babi, confessed to the crime and said that Bruna extorted them. - CREDITO: CAMPO GRANDE NEWS


The murder of the transvestite “Bruna Toro”, renamed Renato Souza dos Santos, 35, involved four other transvestites and was committed because she extorted colleagues from the sexual program, demanding from them all the money they earned. The information is from delegate Célia Bezerra, from the 4th Police Station, responsible for clarifying the case and arresting those involved, whose names have not yet been released.

“Bruna Toro” died as a result of seven stabs, stones and blows. The crime occurred on Thursday night (9), at Rua Estevão Capriata, in Vila Progresso, and the transvestite died in the early morning of the following day, in the Holy House.

According to information from the delegate, still on Friday, the case was clarified and the group involved in the homicide was caught in the act at the boarding house where she lived, at Rua dos Operários, Vila Albuquerque. “We identified the perpetrators and made the arrest in the act. At dawn on Saturday, I forwarded requests for remand to the judge who converted them, ”said the police official.

The transvestites who committed the crime said that since the beginning of this month they had been extorted by “Bruna Toro”. “Under threats, it demanded all the money that the others collected in programs, as a kind of toll. She started to charge her since she was a fugitive from the prison system, on the 8th of this month. He left and started earning a living this way ”, pointed out Célia Bezerra.

In this period, only one of the program colleagues, “Bruna Toro”, took R $ 200. “It is a high amount, considering that they charge R $ 10 per client”, said the official.

At the time she was stabbed, “Bruna Toro” had gone to collect more money. "With a knife, she demanded money, there was a physical fight and one of the transvestites managed to disarm her, striking her while the others attacked her with stones, pieces of wood, which they found around the place," said the delegate.

The detainees were charged with intentional homicide (when the crime is intended). The General Police Station evaluates whether it will disclose the true identities of the authors.



Transvestite was murdered in ambush for charging 'toll' from colleagues
Police arrested four suspects who confessed to participating in the murder

Arlindo Florentino
Share on whatsappShare on facebookShare on printfriendly
«Prev next»


Policemen from the 4th Police Station clarified the case and arrested the suspects in the act (Photo Luiz Alberto)
Kelvin Luis Cirilo Santos, 21 years old (Giovanna), Gustavo Berluche Fernandes, 22 years old (Fernanda), Rafael Proença Amaral, 23 years old (Rafaela) and Evandro Chagas da Silva, 23 years old (Babi) were arrested in the act as responsible for the death of Renato Souza dos Santos, 34, known as “Bruna Toro”, on Thursday night (9) at Rua Estevão Capriata corner with Simon Bolívar, in Vila Progresso, in Campo Grande.

Know more

Nine homicides are recorded during violent weekend in MS
'Maninho' stabs disaffected in square and victim dies in hospital
Young man is stabbed to death during car stereo encounter
The suspects were arrested on Friday morning (10) and, according to the statements, “Babi” was responsible for delivering seven knife blows to “Bruna”, causing her death. The others involved participated in striking the victim with stones and sticks, causing various injuries.

The reason alleged by the four involved is that “Bruna Toro” was charging toll so that they could occupy the “job position”, in the place that is known as a point of prostitution. On Thursday, “Bruna” would have passed by the place in the company of a boyfriend and the four then decided to stop the collection.

Bruna would be in possession of a pocketknife and started to make threats. "Babi" would have managed to get hold of the weapon and deliver the blows.

After receiving the incident, delegate Célia Regina da Silva, from the 4th Police Station, started investigations and managed to detain the quartet in a house in Vila Dr. Albuquerque, with everyone confirming their participation.

The four have no passages through the police, but “Bruna”, who has already responded for drug trafficking and lightning kidnapping, was also a fugitive from the semi-open prison.

On Monday morning (13), the quartet was taken to Imol (Institute of Medicine and Legal Dentistry) for exams and later sent to the prison.



Police arrest four suspected transvestites in MS
Victim died on Friday (10), at Santa Casa, in Campo Grande.
Suspects confessed the crime to the police in deposition.

This Friday (10), the Civil Police arrested four transvestites suspected of killing another transvestite stabbing Thursday night (9), in Vila Progresso, in Campo Grande .

In testimony to the police, the suspects confessed to the crime and explained that they assaulted the transvestite after she charged a sum of money, which would be a fine for the programs carried out on the spot.

According to the police, the 34-year-old transvestite was hit in the lower back, chest and head. In total there were seven blows. The victim did not resist the injuries and died hours after being sent to Santa Casa in the capital of Mato Grosso do Sul.

At the hospital, the victim's sister named her husband after the transvestite, because she knew she had tickets for the police. The sister only informed her true identity after her death.


Murdered transvestite is suspected of charging 'toll' for peer peers
 5 YEARS AGO  CAMPO GRANDE, GENERAL, POLICE,
Police arrested four suspects who confessed to participating in the murder

86543456789
Policemen from the 4th Police Station clarified the case and arrested the suspects in the act (Photo Luiz Alberto)

Kelvin Luis Cirilo Santos, 21 years old (Giovanna), Gustavo Berluche Fernandes, 22 years old (Fernanda), Rafael Proença Amaral, 23 years old (Rafaela) and Evandro Chagas da Silva, 23 years old (Babi) were arrested in the act as responsible for the death of Renato Souza dos Santos, 34, known as “Bruna Toro”, on Thursday night (9) at Rua Estevão Capriata corner with Simon Bolívar, in Vila Progresso, in Campo Grande.

The suspects were arrested on Friday morning (10) and, according to the statements, “Babi” was responsible for delivering seven knife blows to “Bruna”, causing her death. The others involved participated in striking the victim with stones and sticks, causing various injuries.

The reason alleged by the four involved is that “Bruna Toro” was charging toll so that they could occupy the “job position”, in the place that is known as a point of prostitution. On Thursday, “Bruna” would have passed by the place in the company of a boyfriend and the four then decided to stop the collection.

Bruna would be in possession of a pocketknife and started to make threats. "Babi" would have managed to get hold of the weapon and deliver the blows.

After receiving the incident, delegate Célia Regina da Silva, from the 4th Police Station, started investigations and managed to detain the quartet in a house in Vila Dr. Albuquerque, with everyone confirming their participation.

The four have no passages through the police, but “Bruna”, who has already responded for drug trafficking and lightning kidnapping, was also a fugitive from the semi-open prison.

On Monday morning (13), the quartet was taken to Imol (Institute of Medicine and Legal Dentistry) for exams and later sent to the prison.

https://www.campograndenews.com.br/lado-b/comportamento-23-08-2011-08/foi-vendendo-meu-corpo-na-rua-que-sofri-estupro-e-matei-travesti

https://www.midiamax.com.br/policia/2018/travestis-acusadas-de-assassinato-em-briga-por-ponto-serao-julgadas-na-segunda

https://homofobiamata.wordpress.com/2015/07/09/bruna-toro-34-anos-facadas-ms-campo-grande/

https://transfofa.blogspot.com/2015/07/brasil-travesti-agredida-pauladas-morre.html

http://www.folhadenavirai.com.br/ler.php?id=5383

https://www.jornalcorreioms.com/2015/07/travesti-assassinada-e-suspeita-de.html

https://www.campograndenews.com.br/cidades/capital/presas-por-matar-colega-4-travestis-dizem-que-eram-extorquidas-pela-vitima

https://web.archive.org/web/20150812110736/http://www.midiamax.com.br/policia/cobranca-pedagio-colegas-foi-motivo-morte-travesti-vila-266049

https://web.archive.org/web/20151222151009/http://www.correiodoestado.com.br/cidades/campo-grande/assassinato-de-travesti-envolveu-quatro-e-foi-motivado-por-cobranca/252126/
