Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-06-15T12:28:46+01:00

====== Marcela Chocobar (6 Sep 2015) ======
Created Tuesday 15 June 2021



https://www.tiemposur.com.ar/policiales/siete-anos-sin-marcela-chocobar-son-siete-anos-de-lucha-y-siete-anos-de-pedir-justicia

The Superior Court of Justice (TSJ) of Santa Cruz ratified the life sentence to which a man was sentenced for the homicide due to gender hatred of the young trans Marcela Chocobar , who was murdered and dismembered in September 2015 in Río Gallegos, and extended the sentence for the young man accused of having covered up the incident to 15 years, judicial sources reported.
The provincial TSJ thus dismissed the proposals made by the defense of the convicted and partially ratified the sentence that the Río Gallegos Criminal Chamber had issued in 2019. In that ruling, the chamberlains sentenced Oscar Humberto Biott to life in prison as the material author of the crime of "homicide due to gender hatred ( transfemicide )" to the detriment of Chocobar; and Ángel Azzolini to 6 years for the "aggravated cover-up" of the same crime. The complaint had appealed the sentence for Azzolini and now the TSJ considered the convicted person as a "secondary participant" and extended his sentence to 15 years in prison. The prosecution, meanwhile, had also appealed the conviction regarding Azzolini and had requested life imprisonment, but the court did not allow. Before deciding, the TSJ, with the presence of the president Paula Ludueña and the members Alicia Mercau, Reneé Fernández and Mauricio Mariani, held an oral hearing in which both convicted were present. According to the sources, at the hearing, Azzolini did not want to say anything, while Biott assured that the other condemned man was not an accomplice, that he only made a comment about the "problem" he had with Marcela. "He says that he did have contact with Marcela, but that he did not take her life; that he did not commit that atrocity and the people who did it are free," said the source consulted. The victim was last seen alive on September 6, 2015 , when he got into a car at the corner of a bowling alley in the center of Río Gallegos and eight days later his skull appeared in a vacant lot located about 7 kilometers away. , in the San Benito neighborhood of that same city. Both Biott and Azzolini declared during the process that ended in the initial ruling that they were unaware that Chocobar was trans at the time she boarded the vehicle in which they were both traveling. The TSJ, with the majority vote of the president and members of Mercau and Fernández, ratified the ruling against Biott and considered that Azzolini participated in the mutilation and disappearance of Chocobar's body, to which it added "the aberration of the treatment given to the skull", the only thing that appeared from the young trans, considered a "message".

https://www.airedesantafe.com.ar/actualidad/santa-cruz-amplian-la-pena-uno-los-condenados-el-transfemicidio-marcela-chocobar-n334938
