Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-02-06T08:57:28+00:00

====== Lohanna Berkins (Buenos Aires - 5 Feb 2016) ======
Created Saturday 06 February 2021
@medical




Lohanna Berkins
50
https://www.pagina12.com.ar/272415-lohana-berkins-travesti-orgullosa
https://www.lanacion.com.ar/sociedad/murio-la-activista-trans-lohana-berkins-nid1868550/
https://www.lavaca.org/notas/hasta-lohana-siempre/
5 Feb 2016 [born 15 Jun 1965]
Buenos Aires
Argentina
medical/not reported



Trans activist Lohana Berkins, a pioneer in the fight for the right to gender identity, died today after being hospitalized for several weeks in a Buenos Aires clinic.

"We regret the death of Lohana Berkins, a trans activist for LGBT life, inclusion and equality," the Ombudsman's Office of the City of Buenos Aires posted on his Twitter account, confirming the news.

Yesterday, given the deterioration of his health, he had published a letter through his fellow activist Marlene Wayar, in which he acknowledged that his condition was "critical", and in which he thanked the support received in recent times. .

"I am convinced that the engine of change is love. The love that was denied us is our impulse to change the world. All the blows and contempt that I suffered, do not compare with the infinite love that surrounds me in these moments. Always a transvestite. A hug, "the letter ended.




Victoria Torres remembered Lohana Berkins five years after her death: "she is more present than ever in the advancement of each of her companions"
Written by AM 750 on February 5, 2021
In her editorial in La Casa Invita , Victoria Torres recalled the trans feminist activist, Lohana Berkins , an essential figure in the fight to make visible and demand the rights of transgender people in the country.

"Although the calendar says that today marks the fifth anniversary of her death, Lohana is more present than ever in each of her companions who advance in the just epic because they are seen, respected, considered and valued," said Torres.

"'In a world of worms, you have to have a lot of courage to be a butterfly,' Lohana said, and she had it and knew how to infect it," he remarked.

Berkins was co-founder of the Asociación de Mujeres Meretrices de Argentina ( AMMAR ), was a member of the Asociación de Travestis Transexuales y Transgéneros de Argentina ( ATTTA ) and founded and chaired, until the day of her death, the Asociación Lucha por la Travesti Identity - Transsexual ( ALITT ).

In this regard, Torres said: “in each great and small event that she pushed from her militancy, everything that she left and is happening has to do with love. It was a great life and it gave birth to many other lives . I take my hat off to such humanity, "he said.

https://750.am/2021/02/05/victoria-torres-recordo-a-lohana-berkins-a-cinco-anos-de-su-fallecimiento-esta-mas-presente-que-nunca-en-el-avance-de-cada-una-de-sus-companeras/


Until Lohana, always
“Salteña, a communist, brave, determined, organizer of thousands of micro-revolutions and mega-demonstrations, Lohana Berkins developed a unique capacity in the streets of Flores, something like a super power capable of disarming with a few words the most dangerous, uncomfortable, violent situation. Because right there, at the moment of the earthquake, Lohana made us laugh. The lesson, then, is that from now on we will have to learn to produce that dismissive, rebellious, complicit laugh, conjugator of fear. The lesson, too, is that from today on we will have to read Lohana to measure, among other things, everything that practice represents in the creation of theory, that of putting the body, and then putting the head and so on, from sensitive , intelligent, alert, voracious anatomy, create policies. The lesson also it is to remember now one of those theoretical creations so Lohana: every transvestite body is a political body ”. With these words the writer and journalist Claudia Acuña fired Lohana on February 5, 2016. Five years after her death, we recall this conversation published in MU in December 2007: “First transvestism breaks with certainties, dismantles this a thing of binarity, of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”. of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”. of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”. we recall this conversation published in MU in December 2007: “First transvestism breaks with certainties, dismantles this a thing of binarity, of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”. of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”. of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”. we recall this conversation published in MU in December 2007: “First transvestism breaks with certainties, dismantles this a thing of binarity, of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”. of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”. of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire ”.


Photo: Subcoop.
Salteña, a communist, brave, determined, organizer of thousands of micro-revolutions and mega-demonstrations, developed in the streets of Flores a unique capacity, something like a super power capable of disarming with a few words the most dangerous, uncomfortable, violent situation. Because right there, at the moment of the earthquake, Lohana made us laugh.

The lesson, then, is that from now on we will have to learn to produce that dismissive, rebellious, complicit laugh, conjugator of fear.

The lesson, too, is that from today on we will have to read Lohana to measure, among other things, everything that practice represents in the creation of theory, that of putting the body, then putting the head and so on, from sensitive, intelligent, alert, voracious anatomy, create policies.

The lesson, moreover, is to remember now one of those theoretical creations so Lohana: every transvestite body is a political body.

His was punished, ignored, intervened, imprisoned, exploited. And consequently, Lohana Berkins died.

So we have the great task of caring for the bodies of those who suffer violence today. The macho ones, the institutional ones, the social ones, the cultural ones, the ones that make us cry today.

Political anatomy of the transvestite body
Conversation with Lohana Berkins published in MU in December 2007.

From a woman to a transvestite, I ask you, how can I make a political reading of your body?

One of the things that this society does not see is the transvestite body. That is to say, he sees the identity, the appearance, the performative part of the transvestite, but what this society produces a moral and sexual panic is the transvestite's body. If I, in any cultural and socioeconomic context, pronounce the word "woman" or "male" immediately, all and all can refer to a body, with variations according to culture, but an anatomically defined body. On the other hand, when you say "transvestite" you do not imagine that body according to its physical characteristics. Denied the transvestite body, what is read is her appearance. Then it begins to be pigeonholed: if it has a beard, it is pigeonholed into the masculine, they refer you to the origin to which -according to society- you cannot escape. Or they refer you to the other extreme, placing you in the feminine: I see you as a woman, the transvestites are women, and at the time of the articulation of the fight and the word that they pass to the side of the women. So, the transvestite cannot position herself as her own body. And therefore, by denying existence to that body, you are also not granting it any rights. Because ultimately, the only thing we have is that body. And if there is something innocent, it is the anatomical representation of the naked body, but the naked body of the transvestite is subversive, totally dangerous. It is intolerable. And if there is something innocent, it is the anatomical representation of the naked body, but the naked body of the transvestite is subversive, totally dangerous. It is intolerable. And if there is something innocent, it is the anatomical representation of the naked body, but the naked body of the transvestite is subversive, totally dangerous. It is intolerable.

Precisely, that naked body of the transvestite confronts you with the possibility of thinking outside the established schemes: it is not a man, it is not a woman. What is it? Is it a created body? Is it a body that expresses violence? Abuse? Lie?

I think it is not a created body, because in reality we would have to discuss naturalness. I believe that naturalness, in its deepest essence, does not exist. Whatever our sexual orientation, our gender identity, we have already been and are traversed by the superficiality of the market. Needs have been created for us that have nothing to do with us and us. And there it seems to me that comes one of the profound questions that perhaps the transvestite body pulls very strongly from patriarchy and capitalism itself: the fact of what happens when one / one is the architect of their own body, not their own destination. Later we can read why there is this need for that construction of the body, if those constructions are desired, But what the transvestite shows is that she is the architect of her own body and from what she builds it. Another sinister thing that brings out is how society asks you for evidence of that corporeity. What does this mean? They not only ask us to have boobs, but to be the evidence of that boob.

Somehow the market filled this void of representation of the transvestite body with its own icons: you say transvestite and you think of Florencia de la V. Is the representation of the transvestite body as merchandise?

I would differentiate two things. The first is that the market historically quotes the beauty of women as a bargaining chip: it sells the impeccable beauty of Florencia de la V's body. Not just her body, just plain. What is required of that body is beauty. The second question is with respect to the transvestite body in particular: when those bodies are in the prostitution market they are desired and valued. Now when those same bodies leave prostitution, they are not wanted by anyone. Because even Florence herself is caught in that trap: to maintain her status she must be a depoliticized body, which is the same thing that happened to us in prostitution. A body at the disposal of the type that will not buy conflict, but submission.

From that point of view, there is no more politicized body than that of the transvestite teacher.

Of course: imagine that body placed there, in front of a classroom, so that girls and boys begin to break with binarity and begin to imagine a possible world where dialogue is enabled beyond being a man or a woman. Not only that he sees her as a built body, but also that he can see her as an object of desire in that wish market. Because what if the boy or girl falls in love with the transvestite teacher? What if he loves her, if he admires her? What if he learns from that teacher what she is and what she is not?

What you are saying is that today the transvestite body cannot be thought except in terms of prostitution?

Totally: it cannot be thought but is based on the market. That body, as long as it remains within those margins, say, of a market's profit, of course it is listed. I always say that we transvestites are the hidden desire of the capitalist bourgeoisie, but when will we be the legitimate desire of the revolutionary left? Because it is good that Lohana Berkins and certain transvestites participate in the left-wing parties, but what would happen if the general secretary of a left-wing party says “I present you my partner, Lohana Berkins”, with the same pride that I have seen saying "May I present my fellow worker leader, who fought in Zanón or Brukman"? No. We continue to be an icon of particularity. We got caught up in that market thing. And there something very dangerous is generated that society does not want to debate and that in that sense is more marked in transvestites: that of generating genotypes of people only for something. When, for example, there are debates about prostitution, you see what society really thinks. The first thing that arises around prostitution is whether or not it legalizes it. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. that of generating genotypes of people just for something. When, for example, there are debates about prostitution, that is what society really thinks. The first thing that arises around prostitution is whether or not it legalizes it. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. that of generating genotypes of people just for something. When, for example, there are debates about prostitution, you see what society really thinks. The first thing that arises around prostitution is whether or not it legalizes it. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. The first thing that arises around prostitution is whether or not it legalizes it. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. The first thing that arises around prostitution is whether or not it legalizes it. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. The first thing that arises around prostitution is whether or not it legalizes it. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. The first thing that arises around prostitution is whether or not it legalizes it. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery. Beyond the fact that this issue deserves another chapter, what I point out is that these requests were never prompted by organizations of women and transvestites in a situation of prostitution. We were never going to say “we want a red zone”. The others always say so. And what they express is something very concrete: because just as blackness was synonymous with slavery at the time, transvestites are for this society a genotype of sexual slavery.

Anatomy lesson
What happens to the transvestite body when it arrives at a hospital?

I answer you with a specific anecdote. One day, due to a stomach ache, I go to the hospital, to the gastroenterology service. As I had already made a scandal in admission to be noted as Lohana, the first dialogue with the doctor was like this:

- Did you have abortions? How is your menstruation?
-Sorry doctor, here is a little problem: I am not a woman.
- What do you mean, she's not a woman? Are you not Lohana?
-Yes, it's me. But I am a transvestite.
-Ahh! So, you are a man!

He told me getting up from his chair, as if condemning me. That's where the police of medicine appeared. And although I explained that she was wrong, in the medical record she wrote: "He refuses to give his name." And I was not refusing to give my name, because my name is Lohana. The one who was refusing to see reality was her. Right there I went to speak with the director of the hospital, who suggested that I consult the list of doctors in that specialty so we chose the most "friendly" doctor. I say to him: “Sorry doctor. The same doctor who treated me will treat me, but fine. If when I go she puts sulfur on and sprinkles herself with holy water, it's her problem, but she has to attend to me. Because otherwise we are solving the problem for her, not me.

And your stomach ache?

He had to keep waiting, because they transferred me to another doctor, divine, canchera, post-modern, but who never reviewed me. He couldn't relate to the body of a transvestite. So I went to a third doctor to whom I said: "If you are not going to check me, I'm going now." They never investigated the history of my body, if having been imprisoned influenced my health, if I used silicones illegally and under what conditions, if I took hormones ... My body was a thing thrown there, it continued to be violated, unseen, why see it it was for these doctors to alter, confront and challenge a whole order of what they learned. The panic that our bodies produce is so strong that it absolutely cancels any dialogue.

What does the transvestite body reveal? Insecurity, ignorance, the unknown?

I think that transvestism first breaks with certainties, dismantles this thing of binarity, of divine creation, because it questions the essences. Cross-dressing reveals desire. When the sensitive neighbors of Palermo demanded that transvestites be removed from their doors, who did they really want to remove from the door? At the wish of their husbands. They can't admit that we put the wish on the door. When a person sees a transvestite, in reality, he is not bothered by the difference but by the equality: what reflects me, what is taking me out that makes me so crazy. Let's think that a transvestite even confronts us with thinking about new forms of reproduction. Could we say, for example, that a man has given birth to a son? Yes, if we think that a person who was born a woman and became a man continues to have their reproductive organs. I have seen a photo of a bearded guy giving birth. Some will say that a woman is giving birth, but her identity is male. What do we respect then to refer to that person: his masculine identity or his feminine anatomy?

How could we define transvestite subjectivity?

If I compare myself with a woman of my age, racial cross and social origin, it is evident that the construction of the bodies and the experiences were absolutely different and that this difference gives us a completely different sieve on life. It is true that the whole society, for example, is traversed by violence. But if you start doing an empirical work on that social violence, you can sectorize it: young people go through this, the elderly through that, women through that. What makes the issue of transvestites extremely serious in this society is that all these violence together go through their bodies. If you ask a transvestite, were you imprisoned?, She answers: yes They hit you? And it is. Did they rape you? And it is. Did they kick you out of your house? Yes, did a friend die? And it is. Do you have AIDS? And it is. All these violence together make these stories very heavy. We are clocalizing identities: all the shit must be put on us. But we don't see this story of genocide. They are entire generations that are disappearing and people and officials continue to think that all this misery is not real, it is symbolic. Is there no greater crime than taking someone's childhood? In transvestites it is the first thing that is done. A transvestite girl is always someone expelled from her home, who at the age of 13 already lives in a community with adults whose lives have been shit. They are entire generations that are disappearing and people and officials continue to think that all this misery is not real, it is symbolic. Is there no greater crime than taking someone's childhood? In transvestites it is the first thing that is done. A transvestite girl is always someone expelled from her home, who at the age of 13 already lives in a community with adults whose lives have been shit. They are entire generations that are disappearing and people and officials continue to think that all this misery is not real, it is symbolic. Is there no greater crime than taking someone's childhood? In transvestites it is the first thing that is done. A transvestite girl is always someone expelled from her home, who at the age of 13 already lives in a community with adults whose lives have been shit. Is there no greater crime than taking someone's childhood? In transvestites it is the first thing that is done. A transvestite girl is always someone expelled from her home, who at the age of 13 already lives in a community with adults whose lives have been shit. Is there no greater crime than taking someone's childhood? In transvestites it is the first thing that is done. A transvestite girl is always someone expelled from her home, who at the age of 13 already lives in a community with adults whose lives have been shit.

Another more subtle form of violence, which deactivates rebellion, is it not victimization?

This victimization ends up being a very strong identity trait, because if you lose the victim's speech, you lose everything. It is another of the consequences of exclusion: victimization ends up being a unique identity trait. A stronger step is when that same victim becomes a subject of law. The right to report that we are victims can never be taken away from us, but we don't have to stop there. You have to revolutionize not only your own sense, but also the common sense of society. The law must be interpretive of reality. If someone says "I've already been a whore and I don't want to be any more", the State automatically has to interpret that reality. What happens here is that this reality is not read, it is ignored. We have to discuss new civil and political rights, new constitutions.

Woman models
Could it be said that one of the characteristics of the transvestite is that performative vision of their bodies?

In reality, the aesthetics of all women is not the creation of women themselves: it is a creation of men.

And the transvestite aesthetic is not a creation of men?

It is the aesthetic that was imposed on women, on which transvestites later make their own interpretation. Society generates those icons. The transvestite, then, does nothing but show, well demonstrated, what those icons are. In my time, our model was Moria Casán. Maybe if today a transvestite adolescent had to do a reading of what it is to be a woman, she would make Pampita an icon. Now, why Moria Casan or Pampita are the aesthetics of a trava is not a matter of trava, but of society. That gives you the clear evidence of how the capitalist system generates strong icons that pierce any adolescent and, of course, transvestite teenagers as well. These models are changing, but they forge an identity about the feminine from which no one is safe. The aggravating factor that this identification has is that this transvestite body is only valued in the context of prostitution. And prostitution is a very strong conditioner. For example, regarding prosthetics. If the one that climbs the most (to the cars) has a 400 number, it is logical that the other wants to put a 500 one. There, the one who is defining that body is the prostitute.

Something that is striking is that for a relatively short time society has been thinking of transvestites as a population. Even to move them from the Rosedal, they are no longer treated individually, but as a population to which a specific sector of the city must be assigned so that they are prostituted there.

We must differentiate prostitution from women and transvestites: the only thing that unites us is that for both the first party is the State. Another thing in the prostitution system of Argentina and there are differences there: transvestites are not traversed by pholism, as are female companions. The exploitation is the same. The other time, my colleague told me something that made me see the light. She marked the contradiction of the Argentine State: on the one hand, the Ministry gives us the blankets to take care of ourselves and, on the other, that same Ministry sends the police to repress us. I was struck by his way of pointing out these contradictions in State policies. Because if the State tells you “take care of AIDS”, the next question is: take care of what? What possibilities of a dignified life does that partner have? Can you go to school, change jobs? When we go to the government with these little problems, they tell us: "well, we are going to train them." Perfect. But while the training is taking place, can I require someone who prostituted himself until 6 in the morning to come at 10 to take the hairdressing course? It is unworthy. And this speaks clearly of the fate of death that surrounds the transvestite. This thing of death, not only real, but of everyday death. Because the identification models that he finds on a daily basis are still that of the whore. Or maybe when you go to a store or a bar you are attended by a transvestite? To exercise the rights you have to know them, live, even to demand them they have to be a possible thing. And what is possible for a transvestite beyond prostitution? Many activist transvestites are highly trained, but we are not hired. An example: in the specific field of AIDS, where there is a greater amount of money destined for transvestites, these resources are managed by the NGOs and their technicians, who then grab the transvestites and throw them a few pesos per month so that they go out to the street, distribute the covers and collect the information that they then present to justify their work. We are called to give testimony or for the party. We are not seen as a labor-producing force. that later they grab the transvestites and throw them a few pesos a month so that they go out on the street, distribute the covers and collect the information that they then present to justify their work. We are called to give testimony or for the party. We are not seen as a labor-producing force. that later they grab the transvestites and throw them a few pesos a month so that they go out, distribute the covers and collect the information that they then present to justify their work. We are called to give testimony or for the party. We are not seen as a labor-producing force.

As a workforce they are seen as whores.

Exactly. When we unlock that, we are going to be able to say: "Look how much society advanced."

Transvestite sexuality
Can we think of the transvestite body as a body in rebellion?

Hopefully we transvestites would think of the body as a revolutionary issue. We are not in favor of any type of institutionality, but the negative impacts produced by non-institutionalization cannot be ignored, either by not having access to a hospital, to school, or even to any neighborhood order, the salitas from the neighborhood or the group of the cooperative "El trapito feliz" from the village. The negative impacts of ignorance also affect the ability to rebel. To understand, for example, that identity cannot be built only from a body. Believing that being a woman is having a super tit. For example, when we do the workshops we give a silhouette of a divine model, no one discusses that body. And when we say "dress her up", they all dress her up like a whore, with open stockings, buccaneer boots, short skirts. I tell them: girls, women have taste, smell, color, pain.

When you are building that body, what happens with the thought, with the soul, with the language? Does it go together with the transformation of the body, or does the body go first, and then thinking about itself, looking at itself, saying itself?

Absolutely that is the strongest part that happens with cross-dressing. Generally, for economic and technical reasons, it begins with the body, which is often modified even in early childhood. This requirement of corporality, of corporal definition, is a priority because society is asking you all the time to define yourself. They then agree to this question of transforming the body and cannot think to themselves, what they are and what they want to be. It happened to me that, after many years of being a carrier of this body, I only started to think relatively recently about what this transformation means. If this thought had occurred at the beginning of my life, nothing that I did to myself, nothing, I would have done. I would have done it in other circumstances, with other care, no doubt. But even if I hadn't been able to access that transformation, I would still be Lohana Berkins. Today I know that if I take off my boobs tomorrow, cut my hair, I'm still Lohana Berkins. We can't believe that you can only be a transvestite with that body. That is how hard it has happened to us. And I'm not being a moralist: that each one does what she wants, but because she wants it, not because it is being demanded of her or because of this tremendous belief that without that body there is nothing.

There is something of a stark reality in that choice: without that body there is no destiny in prostitution.

That is something you see in your own desires. When you ask them in a workshop what they want to be, they answer: transvestite. Or woman. They get so caught up in that fiction, and in that just being transvestite thing. Only after a lot of work, other wishes come out: teacher, dancer, doctor. What we try to achieve is that the transvestites begin to accept themselves. And in that sense, a very particular thing is the truqui.

What is the truqui?

It is the art of hiding the penis. Something devious, that hurts you, but that became a requirement to create the fiction that we are women. And no: we are transvestites.

That leads to a key issue: what is the transvestite's sexuality in terms of her own desire? Because for women, for example, a very precious key to our own conquest of desire is masturbation. Is this something that is part of transvestite sexuality?

It is something that cannot be part of as long as they tell you: you are a woman. That disables not only your reality, but your possibility of enjoyment. Accepting our body, and saying we have a penis is wonderful, because that is being a transvestite. Accepting the body as it is and the functionalities of that body is very difficult if you are trapped in the universe of prostitution. If they force you to do twenty things so that the guy doesn't realize that you have a penis, then why don't they look for a woman? If you come with me, wish me in my integrity, enjoy me and let me enjoy myself, because otherwise you are forcing me to continue being the geisha of prostitution. And this has nothing to do with sexual orientation or gender identity. This is being able to love your own body.

The cooperative
To think of these bodies as productive bodies, beyond the sex market, they are organizing themselves in a cooperative. What was the origin of that project?

One of the crises that gripped us was to see that although we had advanced in many things, the vast majority continue to live from prostitution. People already see it well that we sit at a discussion table, but they do not care where we dry money to survive, how many guys we had to put up with, what violence we exposed ourselves to. So I said to the girls: what's going on? Either we are transmitting something wrong, or we are not being understood. Let's stop and see how we take charge of our economic income, of beginning to debate in this totally patriarchal culture why we are not seen as a producer of workforce. And we came up with this from the cooperative. Thus the ideas began to appear. One day Hebe from Bonafini invites me to her radio show, she found out about the project and told us that she loved us.

What are your fears in the face of this new experience?

I am afraid of the state. Not to my colleagues. All my life I lived with fellow women in a dungeon and the conflict was always on the verge of candy and, however, we always found a way to resolve it. The ethic of the whore drives me throughout my life, that's why I never take an argument in personal terms. One grows, and growth produces a lot of fear, but that type of tension does not scare me because we all learned to rescue the value of coexistence and affection.

https://canalabierto.com.ar/2024/02/09/homenaje-a-lohana-berkins-ella-luchaba-para-que-nosotras-podamos-tener-vidas-dignas/

https://www.nuevodiariodesalta.com.ar/noticias/te-puede-interesar-13/recordaron-a-la-activista-lohana-berkins-y-pidieron-justicia-por-camila-spears-75592

https://vivelaplata.com.ar/el-recuerdo-a-la-activista-trans-lohana-berkins-continua-vivo-en-la-plata/

https://www.telam.com.ar/notas/202302/619130-lohana-berkins-aniversario-muerte.html

https://www.grupolaprovincia.com/sociedad/se-cumplen-siete-anos-de-la-muerte-de-lohana-berkins-la-traviarca-adelantada-a-su-tiempo-1097110

https://www.eldiarioar.com/sociedad/cumplen-siete-anos-muerte-lohana-berkins-traviarca-adelantada-tiempo_1_9924865.html

https://www.lavaca.org/notas/hasta-lohana-siempre/

https://www.pagina12.com.ar/272415-lohana-berkins-travesti-orgullosa

https://sxpolitics.org/remembering-lohana-berkins-activist-leader-and-proud-transvesti/14236

https://ilga.org/we-mourn-the-loss-of-lohana-berkins

https://web.archive.org/web/20160310131633/http://www.bubblear.com/renown-trans-activist-logana-dies/

https://www.lanacion.com.ar/sociedad/murio-la-activista-trans-lohana-berkins-nid1868550/

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Lohana_Berkins
