Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-10-30T06:03:12+00:00

====== Cristina Ortiz (Madrid - 9 Nov 2016) ======
Created Friday 30 October 2020
@uncategorised




Cristina Ortiz ("La Veneno") 
9 Nov 2016
Madrid
Spain
misadventure? murder?

NOT ON TDOR LIST



https://www.elespanol.com/corazon/famosos/20210415/descubrimiento-veneno-caida-infiernos-misterio-fatidica-muerte/573693144_0.html



The Sleeper: Veneno
A colleague here at Queerty stumbled onto this gem, a Spanish-produced TV series that landed stateside on HBO Max. Based on a true story, Veneno recounts the story of Christina “La Veneno” [The Poison] Ortiz, a transgender model who became a sensation on Spanish TV in the 1980s and 90s. Much as with trans icons on American television–Kate Bornstein, Caroline Cossey–inspired younger generations of LGBTQ activists, La Veneno helped advance queer rights in Spain, and inspired legions of younger fans.

Veneno picks up in 2006, when a young transgender journalist named Valeria (Lola Rodriguez) has a chance encounter with La Veneno, who has faded into obscurity with age. Valeria becomes obsessed with tracking down and meeting La Veneno as a devoted fan. So begins a peculiar friendship in which La Veneno helps Valeria come out as transgender herself, and in which Valeria becomes a scribe to La Veneno’s incredible story. Little do the pair know their lives have long been intertwined–for better, and for worse.

More than that we’ll not reveal here. The structure of Veneno involves lots of jumping around in time from the 1960s to the 2010s, uncoiling one dramatic twist after the next. The show also benefits from terrific performances on the part of Rodriguez, and by Daniela Santiago and Isabel Torres, each of whom plays the title role at different points in her life and career. The resulting series is altogether hilarious, touching and inspiring, much like the woman that inspired it. COVID-19 halted production of the series after only eight episodes were produced; all of them are now available on HBO Max. With an implied second season in the works to finish out the story, we suggest getting caught up now.

https://www.queerty.com/weekend-try-taste-veneno-poison-get-high-living-20210108


he Madrid Provincial Prosecutor's Office and the judge oppose reopening the case of the death of Cristina La Venenoby AashtaMartinez  02/16/2021 | 9:33 0Posted in Spain , News , Society 
Both the Prosecutor's Office and the head of the investigating court number 53 of Madrid oppose reopening the case for the death of Cristina Ortiz "La Veneno", who died in early November 2016 after suffering a fall at her home that caused a severe head trauma. Although the autopsy report carried out on Cristina concluded that the fatal fall was due to a domestic accident, her family members never believed this version, and even today they continue to try to gather evidence to show that her death could have occurred in a violent way. since his body presented numerous bruises and blows, and maintaining that the police investigation was sloppy and that his then sentimental partner could have something to do with what happened.

https://www.dosmanzanas.com/2021/02/la-fiscalia-provincial-de-madrid-y-la-jueza-se-oponen-a-reabrir-el-caso-de-la-muerte-de-cristina-la-veneno.html


La Veneno: new and shocking testimonies reopen the unknowns about his death
The death of the transsexual icon in 2016 was plagued with doubts that could now begin to be resolved
01/29/2021 - 8:42 PM Updated: 01/29/2021 - 8:42 PM

"In that death anything can happen, it can be an accident or a hand that rocks the cradle." This is one of the statements about the controversial death of Cristina Ortiz, la Veneno , which will appear in the program 'Investigation Team' , which on its tenth anniversary will try to shed light on a case that has returned to the fore after the successful series of the Javis on the famous artist.

The autopsy then determined that the cause of his death was a blow to the head from a fall. However, the artist's family never believed in this hypothesis. "We are not convinced by what they tell us, that he has fallen, had a split lip and a broken nose with blood," says his mother, María Jesús Rodríguez , in the program presented by Gloria Serra .

There is a corner in the Parque del Oeste in Madrid to which a plaque will return that reads: "In memory of Cristina Ortiz, La Veneno, a visible transsexual woman in the 90s" . The city council put it under the mayor of Manuela Carmena, someone withdrew it and now the current consistory of José Luis Martínez Almeida has announced that it will replace it.

The decision is not strange, if we take into account that it has become a place of pilgrimage in which strangers leave flowers and candles in memory of a woman who, four years after her death, continues to give people something to talk about.

La Veneno, in 'Saturday Deluxe'.  (Telecinco)
La Veneno, in 'Saturday Deluxe'. (Telecinco)
Cristina Ortiz's mother and sister have filed a petition to have the case reopened. In addition, a petition is underway on the Change platform to ask the court to re-investigate.

"They have always thought it was a homicide," says Óscar Tarruella, the investigator whom the family has hired to clarify what they consider to be a suspicious death . The petition was presented in the Madrid courts on October 28 and it is not yet known whether it has been accepted for processing.

Gender violence
The keys that would lead to reopening the case, according to Tarruella, are several errors that in his opinion the investigators made. The first one he points out is that they suspected that Cristina was a victim of gender violence but to a "very slight" degree. "How can the state of the events be classified without even checking the state of the victim?

Why did the agents stop intervening in contravention of the protocol for complaints of gender violence when it is deduced that the alleged perpetrator was with Cristina? What if he's threatening her behind the door? Why didn't the police request a warrant at that time? If they had asked the neighbors, they would have deduced that Cristina was a habitual victim of gender violence ”.

The events began on November 5, 2016, when the artist and her boyfriend staged strong fights at their home. Neighbors alerted the police but, as Tarruella recalls, everything was a simple warning.

That night, however, after another fight, the boyfriend notified a neighbor because he had found his partner on the sofa at home in blood. From that moment, all the information is confusing, according to Tarruella, who points to the boyfriend as a possible suspect. La Veneno died on November 9, 2016 at the La Paz hospital , where she was admitted on Friday the 5th and where she was taken to an induced coma.

Months of work
What testimonials does Tarruella have? He has reviewed all the folios of the investigation: there are those who report that Veneno was on the sofa at home unconscious, others say that she was in the bathroom, others that there was blood all over the house. The vital issue here is that this researcher takes months of work to collect the maximum number of pieces that can lead to a conclusion of something different from what was concluded at the time.

Because the police investigated her death and considered it to be a suicide with drugs that led to a fall with a fatal blow. "But the analytics in the hospital show non-toxic ranges!", Says Tarruella, a former Mosso d'Esquadra with a long criminalistic career behind him.

This is another of the points that he points out, in addition to criticizing the fact that the time at which the police attended to the victim was not recorded: “It is the first case in which I find myself in my entire career that in one part does not record the arrival time at home. The time at which the drugs were administered is recorded, which shows that they were treating her for about an hour. One hour".

These and many more are the contradictions that, according to this researcher, there are about the death of the Venom. The body had numerous bruises , her clothes were not analyzed, there was blood all over the house, her boyfriend did not go to the hospital to see her and volunteered at the police station. For all this he has presented a document in court in which he states that the case is reopened.


https://www.vanitatis.elconfidencial.com/famosos/2021-01-29/la-veneno-serie-investigacion-muerte-testimonios_2822427/


"In that death anything can happen, it can be an accident or a hand that rocks the cradle." This is one of the statements about the controversial death of Cristina Ortiz, la Veneno , which will appear in the program 'Investigation Team' , which on its tenth anniversary will try to shed light on a case that has returned to the fore after the successful series of the Javis on the famous artist. The autopsy then determined that the cause of his death was a blow to the head from a fall. However, the artist's family never believed in this hypothesis. "We are not convinced by what they tell us, that he has fallen, had a split lip and a broken nose with blood," says his mother, María Jesús Rodríguez , in the program presented by Gloria Serra .

There is a corner in the Parque del Oeste in Madrid to which a plaque will return that reads: "In memory of Cristina Ortiz, La Veneno, a visible transsexual woman in the 90s" . The city council put it under the mayor of Manuela Carmena, someone withdrew it and now the current consistory of José Luis Martínez Almeida has announced that it will replace it. The decision is not strange, if we take into account that it has become a place of pilgrimage in which strangers leave flowers and candles in memory of a woman who, four years after her death, continues to give people something to talk about.
La Veneno, in 'Saturday Deluxe'.  (Telecinco)
La Veneno, in 'Saturday Deluxe'. (Telecinco)
Cristina Ortiz's mother and sister have filed a petition to have the case reopened. In addition, a petition is underway on the Change platform to ask the court to re-investigate. "They have always thought it was a homicide," says Óscar Tarruella, the investigator whom the family has hired to clarify what they consider to be a suspicious death . The petition was presented in the Madrid courts on October 28 and it is not yet known whether it has been accepted for processing.
Gender violence
The keys that would lead to reopening the case, according to Tarruella, are several errors that in his opinion the investigators made. The first one he points out is that they suspected that Cristina was a victim of gender violence but to a "very slight" degree. "How can the state of the events be classified without even checking the state of the victim? Why did the agents stop intervening in contravention of the protocol for complaints of gender violence when it is deduced that the alleged perpetrator was with Cristina? What if he's threatening her behind the door? Why didn't the police request a warrant at that time? If they had asked the neighbors, they would have deduced that Cristina was a habitual victim of gender violence ”.
Photo: Daniela Santiago, in 'Veneno'.  (Atresmedia)
Carla Antonelli: "Seeing 'Venom' hurts because society is responsible for everything that happened to Cristina"
Alberto Barranco placeholder image
The events began on November 5, 2016, when the artist and her boyfriend staged strong fights at their home. Neighbors alerted the police but, as Tarruella recalls, everything was a simple warning. That night, however, after another fight, the boyfriend notified a neighbor because he had found his partner on the sofa at home in blood. From that moment, all the information is confusing, according to Tarruella, who points to the boyfriend as a possible suspect. La Veneno died on November 9, 2016 at the La Paz hospital , where she was admitted on Friday the 5th and where she was taken to an induced coma.
Months of work
What testimonials does Tarruella have? He has reviewed all the folios of the investigation: there are those who report that Veneno was on the sofa at home unconscious, others say that she was in the bathroom, others that there was blood all over the house. The vital issue here is that this researcher takes months of work to collect the maximum number of pieces that can lead to a conclusion of something different from what was concluded at the time. Because the police investigated her death and considered it to be a suicide with drugs that led to a fall with a fatal blow. "But the analytics in the hospital show non-toxic ranges!", Says Tarruella, a former Mosso d'Esquadra with a long criminalistic career behind him.
Promotional image of 'Veneno'.  (Atresmedia)
Promotional image of 'Veneno'. (Atresmedia)
This is another of the points that he points out, in addition to criticizing the fact that the time at which the police attended to the victim was not recorded: “It is the first case in which I find myself in my entire career that in one part does not record the arrival time at home. The time at which the drugs were administered is recorded, which shows that they were treating her for about an hour. One hour".
Photo: Lola Rodríguez, in a file image.  (EFE)
Lola Rodríguez: "La Veneno never had a healthy learning of what love is"
Juanra Lopez
These and many more are the contradictions that, according to this researcher, there are about the death of the Venom. The body had numerous bruises , her clothes were not analyzed, there was blood all over the house, her boyfriend did not go to the hospital to see her and volunteered at the police station. For all this he has presented a document in court in which he states that the case is reopened

https://www.vanitatis.elconfidencial.com/famosos/2021-01-29/la-veneno-serie-investigacion-muerte-testimonios_2822427/



The mysterious death of La Veneno, a woman who unintentionally became a trans icon: "The body was full of bruises"
This Friday, at 10:30 p.m., the Investigation Team investigates the mysterious death of Cristina Ortiz, La Veneno, with a program with shocking testimonies that doubt that her death was an accident.

January 25, 2021

Gloria Serra reveals that they have proof that "could reopen the case" of 'La Veneno'

On the tenth anniversary of the Investigation Team, he makes a report that will shed light on the mysterious death of Cristina Ortiz, better known as La Veneno, a woman who became a trans icon without intending it.

In the program, hosted by Gloria Serra, unpublished testimonies will be revealed that will sow doubts about the causes of her death. And is that many people around La Veneno have never believed that his death was an accident. "We always had the doubt of knowing what had happened to Cristina. You are in doubt when you see that the body was full of so much bruise, you say, what kind of fall is this?", They highlight.

"When he died he had all his clothes torn, unstitched"

One of her friends even went further, assuring that it did not seem like an accident "because the wound she had was tremendous and her clothes were ripped and torn" when they found the body.

All the complete testimonies and the mysteries of Cristina's death , next Friday on laSexta, in the Investigation Team , starting at 10:30 p.m.

Next Friday it will offer a report focused on the last days of this Spanish icon

An investigation team , the Gloria Serra program , has decided to delve into the death of La Veneno , one of the most charismatic characters in our country in recent decades. The report will be broadcast next Friday, January 29, in the prime time of La Sexta.

Many unknowns

The death of Cristina Ortiz, popularly known as La Veneno, was described as a domestic accident or suicide. Anyway, there have always been many doubts about what really happened that day. His death contributed to further mythologize this trans woman, who managed to become a television icon.

The investigation carried out by Gloria Serra's team delves into the life of this woman and offers us new information about her death. According to the presenter, some of the details offered may even serve to reopen the case.

The evidence found

According to those responsible for the La Sexta program , La Veneno was found very badly injured at night and with her clothes destroyed, although in theory she had had an accident in the bathtub at home. Furthermore, less than a day before his death, he called the police to report abuse. All this made the family suspect that his death went beyond an accident and had occurred under strange circumstances.

The approach of the report that we will be able to see next Friday is based on the idea that being a woman in transit of gender made her case not valued as that of another person in a situation of abuse.

In addition, it raises previously unpublished questions, which can even make the case look from another perspective. One of the most important is an unpublished testimony, which states "I saw clear indications of an alleged homicide. Blood samples from an unknown third person are found on the mattress in the bedroom."

A fashionable character

Research team takes advantage of the pull as a media character that La Veneno has had in recent months. The broadcast on Atresplayer Premium of the series created by Los Javis , of which we were able to see two chapters on Antena 3 , has returned


https://www.lasexta.com/programas/equipo-investigacion/noticias/la-misteriosa-muerte-de-la-veneno-una-mujer-que-se-convirtio-en-icono-trans-sin-pretenderlo-el-cuerpo-estaba-lleno-de-moretones_20210125600f151d461e990001505b3f.html

https://headtopics.com/es/la-misteriosa-muerte-de-la-veneno-una-mujer-que-se-convirti-en-icono-trans-sin-pretenderlo-el-cu-18274890

https://www.elgoldigital.com/gloria-serra-pone-equipo-de-investigacion-a-buscar-los-misterios-de-la-veneno/

https://sincroguia-tv.expansion.com/noticias/equipo-investigacion-abordara-muerte-la-veneno



“I was born on March 19, 1964, the night of San José. Under the song of a serenade. I was born when it was playing twelve at night. As soon as I was born, my grandmother went to wash me and was amazed at my gaze, as if something had happened to me. His eyes were very wide, very bright, and he said: this child is destined to conquer with his gaze ”. This is how one of the actresses who plays Cristina Ortiz, the Spanish trans star of the 90s, recounts her arrival in the world in the new series “Veneno” by Los Javis (Javier Calvo and Javier Ambrossi).

For those who do not know Cristina "La Veneno" Ortiz, just look at some videos on YouTube to stay hooked with her. His first televised appearance was in an interview with him on "Tonight We Cross the Mississipi," the first late night program.from Spain in 1996. Like a mirage of an exuberant Venus among the car lights, Veneno was walking in the middle of the Parque del Oeste street in Madrid - where she worked as a sex worker - when Faela Sainz, the reporter who discovered, asked him to ask a few questions. Cristina responded with charisma and freshness. With her bare breasts, jewels on her face, and reddish hair that shone in the early morning mist, she robbed anyone of all security. The day after the interview aired, she was urged for weeks to come to the set of the show to cast her as a star. At that moment, the story of the Venom began that the media built of her, but not the one she needed to tell us. Not the one she needed us to believe.

The series is a tribute to Cristina and all the trans women of her time . It is inspired by the book “I say! Neither Bitch nor Santa. The memories of La Veneno ”by Valeria Vegas, one of her closest friends and with whom she spent ten years writing her biography. The work of Los Javis and the previous research that exists on Cristina's life is remarkable, which was built both from the accounts of friends and relatives as well as audiovisual records.


The cast is remarkable. It is diverse and brings to the fore a current and relevant need: to hire and cast trans people. Trans roles are carried out by trans people, and even close friends of Veneno who play themselves, as is the case with Paca La Piraña and Juani Ruiz.

The representation of Cristina also gave a lot to talk about: there are five actors who embody her. Three of them, in their most adult stage, are Jedet –in her pre-hormonal period until she was 27 years old-, Daniela Santiago –from 27 to 42- and Isabel Torres –from 42 until the death of the star. It is the three of them who steal all the attention of the public by carrying out the most well-known stages of the icon's life.

On the other hand, Lola Rodríguez plays the biographer Valeria Vegas and how her friendship with the star changed her life. Hiring transgender people is a political decision that allows the group to be made visible in mainstream and far-reaching spaces. More than anything because of the importance of representation in this series.

In the words of the royal Valeria, it is a series that dignifies the memory of La Veneno. It highlights how the same media created a "broken television toy", which they laughed at, demonized and questioned their very pain. Cristina was branded as a dangerous woman, as a trans, as illiterate, as a sex worker, for her turbulent romances, for her witty responses, and for defending herself against the violence that the media exerted on her. In the words of the fictional Valeria, trans women are not dangerous, "they are women for whom the world is dangerous ." Dangerous are the political decisions that lead to fatal ends and that nobody cares about. After the bookThe death threats were immediate and the star said publicly that she feared for her life.

And it was not in vain. In 2016, they found Cristina's body bloody on the couch in her house. At the time, the judge ruled that it was a domestic accident, although the treatment by the police and agencies was careless and the claims of friends and family were not respected. After four years, the case is reopened and points to a homicide by his last partner - in Spain there is no transfemicide figure. This year, in the Parque del Oeste, his memory was honored on the anniversary of his death and it was demanded that the plaque with his name be returned.

"Poison" goes through a lot of emotions, but what it does accurately is bring to mind our friends, our chosen sisters, friends, and queers in our lives.Protect ourselves and nourish ourselves with the freedom to which the icon aspired. Cristina represented herself, but without knowing it now, she represents the trans reality, the resistance and will to live of all marikas. How do you remember those who dared first? With joy and anecdotes, invented or own. If in the end, daring is that: inventing a better life. At one point in the series, a trans girl approaches Valeria and says “Cristina ran so that we could walk today”. Indeed, Veneno gave visibility to many trans girls who came later, from anywhere in the world. The night they saw her for the first time they asked her what she was, man or woman? The “most beautiful transvestite in all of Spain” - as she self-awarded - she answered: “What am I? A traffic light, my soul ”.

https://feminacida.com.ar/la-veneno-el-homenaje-a-todas-las-travas/



The family of singer Cristina Ortiz , better known as La Veneno , decided to reopen the case of her death two years later. They believe there are strong indications that the artist not only fell during the shower and hit her head, as the autopsy points out and ended the investigation but was brutally murdered.

La Veneno died at the University Hospital of La Paz in Madrid days after being found unconscious in her home. She stayed days in a coma. The autopsy determined that the cause of death was a blow to the head caused by a fall. Police said she would have fallen after drinking alcohol with several anxiolytics and closed the case.

But Sister Mari Pepa Ortiz revealed to Corazón magazine that she has just demanded another report. She says the causes of death are still unclear because sources have pointed out that she would have been brutally beaten in her home and that her boyfriend found her with several bruises on her body, besides the head injury. She points out that there were irregularities in the autopsy and that details that could prove the murder were ignored.

Behind the new document is the coroner Luis Frontela , who details that the death was violent and that the Poison tried to defend itself. He says the images taken showed bruising on the lower lip, right cheek and lower extremities. The crime occurred a month later in which he launched the biography "I Say: Neither Whore, Not Santa," in which he revealed many famous men with whom he related. She stated in an interview that several people were not mentioned because she feared being murdered.

"Cristina asked for help hours before she was killed. My sister's death is not a circus, it's a terrible and cruel death. The police have to give explanations. We have hope in justice, "Mari said.

La Veneno was an artist and Spanish muse. She appeared in talk shows in the 1990s, like Pepe Navarro's, like "Tonight we crossed the Mississippi" and "La Sonrisa del Pelicano". She also released two singles: "Poison for Your Skin" and "The Rap of La Veneno" and starred in adult movies. His personal life was also greatly explored by the press. The Moncloa-Aravaca District Council of Madrid installed a plaque in honor of La Veneno one year after his death.

A few days ago we knew the sad news of the death of La Veneno , one of the best-known transsexual women in Spain. La Veneno began to cross-dress in his adolescence behind the back of his family, until he decided to move to Madrid to live the life he wanted. During her transition process, she worked as a prostitute in Parque del Oeste , where she was discovered by the presenter Pepe Navarro , who was filming a report on transvestites. 

As a result of this meeting she began to work as a television collaborator and she won the affection of many and the criticisms of many others. But her life changed when she was admitted to prison for cheating the insurance, an experience that deeply affected her. She claimed to have been raped in jail and gained a lot of weight, which physically deteriorated her. Finally he managed to lose weight, but through a bulimia that caused severe psychological problems .  

Already more recovered returned to television, becoming a regular character of the heart programs . In the last months he had written and published his memoirs, which are a sales success. But on November 5, Cristina was found by her partner lying on her sofa, with heavy blows that could not be recovered. Rest in peace, Cristina. 

The phrase leaves no room for interpretation: "From which it follows that there was violence against the body of Cristina Ortiz Rodríguez, La Veneno, who caused her death, and that it was by no means accidental." An opinion made on October 23, 2018, signed by the prestigious coroner Luis Frontela Carreras, specialist in Legal and Forensic Medicine at the University of Seville. This is reflected in his report and states that the death of the television station was violent cause.
The Poison was his name of war, but his name was Cristina Ortiz Rodríguez. She was a famous television transsexual of the late 90s and died on November 9, 2016, at 52 years of age, allegedly "accidentally".

A call made to Summa, Madrid Health Service, on November 6 of that year by a neighbor alerted that La Veneno was in the bathroom of his house, rugged, in Madrid's Tablada 12 street in Madrid. When the Summa toilets arrived they found the Poison in a pool of blood, on the floor of their bathroom.

Cristina Ortiz, the Poison, in its moment of greatest splendor.
The day before, on November 5 at 2.50 in the morning Cristina Ortiz Rodríguez herself had called 061 four times to communicate that she was being threatened by her ex-partner. When the police appeared at the scene she did not open the door and told the agents that they were there that she "had not called anyone" and that "she did not want the police there." He died on November 9 at the Madrid hospital in La Paz, according to the official part of a severe head trauma after not overcoming an induced coma.

The new forensic report talks about defensive wounds on the fingers.
However, his family never believed in the accidental death version and his sister María José asked for a forensic report to be made. The opinion was prepared by the prestigious Luis Frontela, as a matter of urgency at the request of María José Ortiz, and the official report was used as well as the photographs provided of the deceased by the family itself and taken at the hospital.

This is what the forensic report tells
According to Dr. Frontela in that document: "the forensic autopsy medical report (official, dated November 16, 2016, reports the existence of cranial CT scan of subdural hematomas (mentioned in the plural, without indicating their number, locations , sizes or features).

The doctor affirms that "we are struck that in conclusion two it is indicated" there are no injuries of struggle and / or defense in the body or of any other type in the whole economy of the subject that can make one think of a violent etiology and / or criminal. "That is, the death in the official version was" accidental. "
 
This last conclusion of the official report is the one that has always caused that the Court of Instruction number 53 of Madrid has refused to reopen the cause arguing that the death of the Poison was, therefore, accidental, due to a fall in the bathroom, after the intake of numerous drugs. All despite the numerous resources brought by his sister María José Ortiz, the only one who has struggled all these years to reach the truth.

According to Dr. Frontela, the injuries suffered were not accidental.
However, according to the opinion of Luis Frontela , contributed to the court and incorporated into the summary and offered exclusively by elcierredigital.com , "this statement is very strange considering that throughout the forensic medical report no injuries were mentioned that had the deceased, who showed an action of defense of the victim; for example, bruises are observed on the back of the index fingers and heart of the left hand (figure 1) "and adds that" these bruises do not appear to correspond to the support of the hand on the ground, as a result of a fall, but that an obtuse object hit those fingers when the victim tried to defend himself by putting his hand, for example, between his head and the causal object of the violence. "

The opinion explains about bruises on the hands that "although this is a lesion that has a great medical-legal significance nor is it mentioned by the coroner, nor is the schimosis that is evident on the right side of the lower lip, on the right cheek and in the lower extremities (figures numbers 2 and 3) "and concludes that " from all of which it follows that violence was exercised on the body of Cristina Ortiz Rodríguez, who caused her death, and that it was by no means accidental ".
 
The brief warns that "this report is issued as a matter of urgency because it is imperative to request that none of the samples taken from Cristina Ortiz Rodríguez's body be destroyed and that all kinds of documentation, photographs and samples taken from the body be provided, that they are still preserved, in order to make the final report, which would be made jointly with Professor Dr. D. Carlos Perezagua Clamagirand ".

This report was immediately contributed to the court by the legal representation of María José Ortiz , Cristina's sister, person in the case, but was also dismissed by the court for unknown causes as well as the practice of other proceedings.

As soon as the events occurred, his brothers Francisco, Trinidad, Patricia and María José denounced the events at the Madrid police station in Tetuán. It was on November 6, 2016 at half past nine at night. The police then interrogated neighbors, toilets and then the alleged sentimental partner of the vedette, Alin Bogdan Calin . But no one was charged. Much of the blame that the investigation was not successful was the final drafting of the official report that, dated November 16, 2016, declared that the death was "accidental."


Cristina Ortiz, the Poison, turned into a star of the television.
 Cristina Ortiz, better known as "la Veneno" rose to fame after starting work on television with Pepe Navarro , in 1996. The presenter made a report on transvestites when he discovered her and invited her to his program Tonight We cross the Mississippi , in Telecinco. He even recorded two songs and became famous acting for various Spanish locations.

His sister María Josefa has been fighting for years to discover the truth of what happened that fateful night of November 2016 and has hired the services of a law firm to know if legally the death of the Poison can be investigated as it deserves. In the next few days elcierredigital.com will publish the actions carried out by the Court to decide to file the case without carrying out all the investigations that the family claimed.


Seldom does a show come along that sticks to your ribs like an emotional molasses. Something that is heartbreaking and uplifting all at the same time, comical and conceptual, with characters that have spawned from real life. But they exist and when you experience storytelling in this raw form, it makes you appreciate the power of media and how it can entertain and educate all at once. Such is HBO Max’s new limited series Veneno, a show inspired by the real-life Spanish Trans icon Cristina Ortiz Rodríguez (La Veneno) (Poison). The series that seems plucked from the world of Pedro Almodovar had a two-episode premiere that punctuated Transgenger Awareness Week on November 19.


ALTRESPlayer/HBO Max
La Veneno skyrocketed to fame in 1996 after a late night journalist featured her in a segment about prostitution in the Parque del Oeste in Madrid. The world quickly became enamored with her unapologetic sensibility and her bold matter-of-fact attitude about life. Veneno soon became a beacon of counter culture that represented a stigmatized demographic, but remained sought after for her ability to command a room. Her openness about sex work and her choices afforded her a career as an actress, model, and a singer with hit singles like Veneno Pa’ Tu Piel and El Rap de La Veneno. Her success, however, did not come without a life of obstacles, including abuse, prison, and depression.


Wikimedia Commons
Veneno the series is an adaptation of the 2016 book about Ortiz’s life, titled ¡Digo! Ni puta ni santa: Las memorias de La Veneno (I Say! Not a Whore, Not a Saint: The Memories of La Veneno), by transgender journalist Valeria Vegas, who retold about her friendship with Ortiz in a combination of memoir and biography. Vegas began to chronicle Ortiz’s life as she was illiterate. Vegas is portrayed by Lola Rodríguez in the series as well as the story weaves through her own transition while unearthing key moments in Ortiz’s life.


ALTRESPlayer
In 2016, just a month after the memoir was published, Ortiz suffered a traumatic head injury which led to her untimely death. Her death was considered accidental, but she had allegedly received death threats due to revealing details she had made about well-known figures in the book which leads many to believe that she, like so many other trans women, had been murdered.

Created by Javier Calvo and Javier Ambrossi, known by many as “Los Javis”, Veneno is groundbreaking in Spanish media featuring a cast of commanding trans actresses, three of which portray Cristina (La Veneno) phenomenally at three distinct stages of her life. Jedet, plays Ortiz at a young age during her transition; Daniela Santiago, portrays Ortiz at the height of her time in the limelight; and Isabel Torres, is Ortiz at a mature age, where she looks back on a life of hardship. Jedet underwent her own transition during the making of the series.

Veneno’s story introduces you to the injustice and ridicule she endured since early in her life, even being rejected by her own mother and being forced to flee her home at a young age. It is an echo in the memory of many in the queer community who have experienced hatred and abuse.


ALTRESPlayer/HBO Max
 

Veneno is a love letter to not only the trans community, but to the entire LGBTQ+ family, reminding us that we entrust in one another and we should serve as gatekeepers, while paying respect to those who have paved the uneasy way before us. Through the snippets of Ortiz’s life, viewers get a glimpse of the authenticity that was Cristina (La Veneno) and how her impact on the LGBTQ+ community has reached beyond Spanish culture. The sex-positive series is as hilarious as it is poetic and will leave you breathless as you witness the compassion of a fierce and aging trans elder who only wanted to be something in the world.

Veneno is streaming now on HBO Max with an eight-episode limited series. New installments are available every Thursday.

<iframe width="560" height="315" src="https://www.youtube.com/embed/zmFyglIpxMs" frameborder="0" allow="accelerometer; autoplay; clipboard-write; encrypted-media; gyroscope; picture-in-picture" allowfullscreen></iframe>


https://instinctmagazine.com/la-venenos-legacy-empowers-lgbtq-community/

https://elcierredigital.com/sucesos/763401838/cristina-veneno-misterios-cuarto-aniversario-muerte.html

https://www.elconfidencial.com/television/programas-tv/2020-11-11/cristina-la-veneno-muerte-salvame-espejo-publico-oscar-tarruella_2828443/

https://amomama.es/237506-las-preguntas-sobre-la-misteriosa-muerte.html

https://www.elimparcial.com/espectaculos/Quien-fue-CristinaOrtiz-Rodriguez-La-Veneno-cuya-serie-se-estrenara-por-HBO-y-ha-causado-fuerte-exito-en-Espana-20201111-0109.html

https://www.vanitatis.elconfidencial.com/famosos/2020-11-09/veneno-cuatro-anos-suicidio-muerte-violenta_2822427/

http://www.telemadrid.es/programas/juntos/incognitas-muerte-Veneno-2-2285491499--20201110104730.html

https://columnacero.com/mundo-rosa/56414/hoy-se-cumplen-4-anos-de-la-muerte-de-la-veneno-y-los-javi/

https://smoda.elpais.com/feminismo/veneno-serie-cambio-mirada-trans/

https://www.laopiniondemalaga.es/malaga/2020/11/01/veneno-ficcion/1201670.html

https://www.losreplicantes.com/articulos/recoge-firmas-reabra-caso-cristina-ortiz-la-veneno-homicio-accidente/

https://www.losreplicantes.com/articulos/personajes-serie-television-la-veneno/

https://www.larazon.es/gente/20201029/t55jzrxmnzawzo32kb5m6xvmai.html

https://elcierredigital.com/masmedia/476672425/muerte-la-veneno-informes-policia-autopsia-oficial-contradicen.html

https://www.elmundo.es/television/2020/10/23/5f92d57b21efa0f8398b4596.html

https://www.revistavanityfair.es/cultura/entretenimiento/articulos/isabel-torres-actriz-veneno-serie-entrevista/47299

https://elcierredigital.com/investigacion/936197573/informe-policia-casa-veneno-sangre-cama-antes-morir.html

https://www.elespanol.com/bluper/noticias/carmen-de-mairena-se-merece-una-serie-de-television

https://elpais.com/elpais/2019/04/13/gente/1555178391_148094.html

(series being shot)
https://elcierredigital.com/investigacion/532316851/familia-cristina-ortiz-la-veneno-estudia-suspender-serie.html

(photo)
https://elcierredigital.com/investigacion/128267140/cristina-ortiz-la-veneno-informe-forense-muerte-violenta.html

https://www.abc.es/play/television/noticias/abci-cristina-ortiz-veneno-gloria-televisiva-violaciones-carcel-201906010046_noticia.html

https://elcierredigital.com/investigacion/265965618/lugar-murio-cristina-ortiz-la-veneno-inspeccion-policial.html

(photo)
https://www.losreplicantes.com/articulos/transexuales-destacados-historia/

https://www.abc.es/estilo/gente/abci-todos-secretos-rodean-muerte-veneno-201901080855_noticia.h

https://nlucon.com/2019/01/12/familia-reabre-caso-da-morte-da-cantora-trans-la-veneno-por-indicios-de-assassinato/

https://elpais.com/ccaa/2016/11/09/madrid/1478689425_879159.html

https://www.lavanguardia.com/gente/20161110/411751601994/la-veneno-muerte-autopsia.html

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Veneno


Case reopened  Jan 2019

On November 9, 2016, they found the lifeless body of Cristina Ortiz , better known as La Veneno , at home with a strong blow to the head. Many spoke of a violent death , due to multiple contusions throughout the body, even talking about a settling of accounts . However, the autopsy indicated that his death was due to a fall , and the case was closed. Until now, when his relatives have provided evidence that would give clues about a supposed murder .

According to the magazine Corazon, his sister would have presented a forensic report that would contradict the first autopsy, which determined the vedette would have ingested sleeping pills and alcohol, and then would have had a fall in the bathroom , which caused the strong contusion in the skull that ended his life - after several days in a coma -. The new autopsy reveals that irregularities were committed and that various details were overlooked.

Behind the document is the prestigious forensic Luis Frontela , also in charge of investigating the crime of the Girls of Alcasser . In it it is detailed that the death was violent and that La Veneno tried to defend itself, since there would be fight or defense injuries . On the other hand, supports this argument in that the images taken to the corpse show " esquimosis " or bruises in the lower lip, right cheek and lower extremities.

La Veneno said she was afraid of being killed
Just a month before his death, La Veneno published a memoir entitled " ¡Digo! No whore, no saint! », In which he unveiled many of his famous lovers. In a magazine she stated that, however, many other names were kept, not because of fear of the demands, but because of the assassination. " I've been with people so important that with a finger moves Spain, " he said.

https://www.abc.es/estilo/gente/abci-reabren-caso-veneno-encontrar-indicios-asesinato-201901061345_noticia.html

https://elpais.com/elpais/2019/04/13/gente/1555178391_148094.html

https://www.abc.es/play/television/noticias/abci-cristina-ortiz-veneno-gloria-televisiva-violaciones-carcel-201906010046_noticia.html

https://www.losreplicantes.com/articulos/forense-determinan-muerte-violenta-la-veneno/


Christina Ortiz ("La Veneno")
9 Nov 2016

THE EYE INSPECTION COLLECTS BRUISES ON THE HANDS, FEET AND LEGS OF THE VEDETTE AGAINST THE LACK OF BRUISES ALLEGED BY THE FORENSIC REPORT
The Scientific Police contradicts the official autopsy of La Veneno: "Cristina Ortiz was the victim of an aggression"
ExclusiveCristina The Poison. 
Cristina The Poison.
David Gonzalez August 9, 2019 The official autopsy of Cristina Ortiz Rodríguz, known as La Veneno, says that her death was by accident, without appreciating any bruising. However, the report of the Police Technical Ocular Inspection in its minutes shows that the vedette could have been "victim of an aggression." A thesis closer to Dr. Luis Frontela's report, which highlighted as the police the presence of bruises on the feet, hands and legs. They point out a possible aggression on La Veneno.
Cristiana Ortiz Rodríguez, better known as La Veneno , died on November 9 and the official version of how her death occurred is still wrapped in a mystery nebula. The transsexual vedette, a television icon of the 90s, died accidentally according to the official autopsy performed by the coroner Miguel Ángel Castillo Hernández.

"Not a single bruise can be seen throughout the body, except for a wound (which was sutured in the operating room) in the right or front right supraciliary region and caused by a fall," Castillo Hernández wrote in his report. This contradicts the report made by the prestigious forensic doctor Luis Frontela , commissioned by the sister of the vedette, María Josefa Ortiz .

The funny thing is that the official autopsy is also contradicted by the Police Technical Ocular Inspection Act . It can be read verbatim that some agents “appear in the Hospital de la Paz (Madrid)” where La Veneno was in a coma and observe “as in the legs and at the height of both knees and feet, it presents various bruises of different sizes "


Cristina Ortiz La Veneno in her years of splendor
In addition, it is announced that they pick up “the left hand” and “the right hand ” of the actress “possible biological remains of the author of the possible aggression” . That is to say, they assume that, due to the bruises, that Pepe Navarro's television muse tried to defend against an attack. The opposite of what is indicated in the official version.

The report of the Provincial Brigade of the Scientific Police indicates the following: "that they had been notified that Cristina was admitted to the Hospital of La Paz in Madrid in a very serious condition since she had been the victim of a domestic accident so they appeared in said hospital, observing that, according to her criteria, Cristina presented symptoms of having been the victim of an aggression given the injuries she presented . "

Some data not taken into account by the coroner Miguel Ángel Castillo Hernández when doing his job. Nor is it known about the result of the samples taken in Cristina Ortiz's body and they did determine vital information about what happened at her home in the Madrid neighborhood of Tetuán with the ill-fated transsexual.

Home inspection
The Police Technical Ocular Inspection Act also includes the Ocular Inspection carried out in the house of the vedette where its tragic end was precipitated located in Calle Tablada nº 12, in Madrid.

According to what is stated in said minutes we can know the way of life of the last times of La Veneno,  since it is reported the "visible dirt and mess" that presided over the home, as well as that on the nightstand there was " numerous blister packs and medication boxes specifically Adofen 20 mg, Tranxilium 50 mg, seroquel 200 mg ”in addition to“ empty bottles of alcoholic beverages ” .

The agents upon arriving at the home found “the entrance door open, presenting part of the lock and leaf symptoms of having been forced on occasion”. The door gave access "to a small distributor, which communicates through its left door with the bathroom, and on the right to the living room, from which you access the kitchen and the only bedroom." The lights were "on in the living room and in the bathroom."

In the bathroom, as in the living room and the bedroom were found "stains of a substance apparently reddish blood." These stains were located on the toilet lid, on the sink in the bathroom, on the floor of the living room "ten centimeters from the television", in the "right area" of the headboard of the sofa, on the floor of the bedroom (" specifically at the entrance ”) and in the area between the foot and the bed wall. 


Police Technical Eye Inspection Act. 
Finally, blood stains were also found in the upper area of ??the bed mattress. Precisely, there, in bed was where he found, as he published in his day elcierredigital.com, DNA of another person who was never investigated .

According to the route of blood stains collected by the Ocular Inspection and, taking into account that the official autopsy ensures that it was a death by accident, Cristina had to hit herself in the bathroom, go around the house and end up in her bed. A somewhat rocambolesque version of the end of the vedette and, apparently, unbelievable.


La Veneno with its discoverer Pepe Navarro. 
Thus, the Eye Inspection Act returns to cast shadows on the autopsy that pointed to its accidental end. Something that contradicts the bruises on hands, legs and feet and the possibility that there was an aggressor, thus being much closer to the version offered by the report of Dr. Luis Frontela , commissioned by the sister of La Veneno, María Josefa Ortiz , that of the questioned official autopsy signed by the coroner Miguel Ángel Castillo Hernández.

Although the subject of La Veneno's death is still judicially closed, there is much evidence that Cristina Ortiz's case was closed too quickly without taking into account very important details for the clarification of her death.

(photo)
https://elcierredigital.com/investigacion/55843997/inspeccion-ocular-La-Veneno-policia-contradice-informe-forense.html

https://elcierredigital.com/investigacion/813691287/informe-oficial-autopsia-la-veneno-dice-murio-caida.html

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/La_Veneno




La Veneno
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia
Jump to navigation Jump to search
La Veneno
¡Digo! Ni Puta Ni Santa. Las memorias de La Veneno, la entrevista.mp4 snapshot 00.05 (2020.03.29 23.08.57).png
Ortiz in October 2016
Born	
José Antonio Ortiz Rodríguez
19 March 1964
Died	9 November 2016 (aged 52)
Cause of death	Traumatic brain injury after accidental fall
Monuments	Honor plaque at Parque del Oeste
Nationality	Spanish
Other names	La Veneno
Occupation	
Vedette
singer
actress
model
Years active	1996–2016
Known for	Esta Noche Cruzamos el Mississippi
Notable work
¡Digo! Ni Puta Ni Santa. Las Memorias de la Veneno
Cristina Ortiz Rodríguez (19 March 1964 – 9 November 2016), better known as La Veneno ("Poison"), was a Spanish singer, actress, sex worker and media personality. Considered one of the most important and beloved LGBT icons in Spain, she rose to fame in 1996 after briefly appearing on the late-night talk show Esta noche cruzamos el Mississippi, broadcast on Telecinco between 1995 and 1997 and hosted by the journalist Pepe Navarro. She would later appear regularly on the show as well as on La sonrisa del pelícano.

La Veneno was one of the first transgender women to become widely known in Spain, and has since been recognised as a pioneering trans icon.[1] In 2020, a critically acclaimed series produced by Atresmedia following her life became a hit show in Spain.

Early life[]
La Veneno was born in Adra, Almería,[2] the child of José María Ortiz López (1930–2020) and María Jesús Rodríguez Rivera (born 1932).[3][4] She noted from an early age that she was different from other children. She suffered aggression and abuse from people in her hometown and from her own family, who did not accept her gender identity. At age thirteen she moved with one of her sisters to San Pedro de Alcántara, near Marbella with the Romero family after her parents kicked her out of their house. There she worked as a farmer and a shop assistant as well as a hairdresser and a model. In 1989 she won the contest for Míster Andalucía.[5] She was illiterate.

Career[]
In 1991 she left Marbella for Spain's capital city, Madrid, where she worked as a hospital chef. That same year she appeared in the date television show "Vivan los novios", which she won. The prize was a voyage to Bangkok alongside Charo, the partner she found on the show.[6] There, in Thailand, she attended a lady boy show where she realized that she was transgender.[7] Thus, in 1992, she started her process of transition. After being fired from her job at the hospital she worked as a prostitute in the Parque del Oeste in Madrid to pay her bills.[8] There she was discovered in April 1996 by reporter Faela Saiz, who interviewed her for a TV feature on prostitution for the late-night show Esta noche cruzamos el Mississippi on Telecinco.[9] The interview, showcasing La Veneno's outrageous humour, was a hit. The show's host, Pepe Navarro, subsequently invited her to become a regular contributor. Her rise to fame was almost immediate, and she helped the programme reach viewing figures of almost eight million. The show ended in July 1997 after political conflicts surrounding the Alcàsser Girls crime and moved to Antena 3 under the name La sonrisa del pelícano.[10][11] El Pelícano ended in December 1997 after three months of broadcasting after numerous rumours that a sex tape starring journalist and entrepreneur Pedro J. Ramírez would be aired on television.[12]

In 1996, La Veneno recorded two singles, Veneno pa' tu piel and El rap de La Veneno, with the first one being gold-certified for selling over 50,000 copies, and her career as a vedette and a television personality took off. During the decade she toured Spain, performing in galas and making personal appearances at nightclubs and festivals. She also modeled for designers like Pepe Rubio and Antonio Alvarado. When La sonrisa del pelícano ended, she spent a month doing TV work in Buenos Aires, before returning to Spain and participating in other programmes for Telemadrid and Antena 3, among other channels. She also took part in two pornographic films, El secreto de La Veneno and La venganza de La Veneno. She also acted in six episodes of the series En plena forma, starring Alfredo Landa.

Prison term[]
In April 2003, Cristina was implicated in a case of arson and insurance fraud, and she was reported to the police by her then-boyfriend Andrea Petruzzelli. She was accused of intentionally setting fire to her flat in order to claim the insurance money. She was found guilty, and sentenced to three years in prison at the Centro Penitenciario Madrid VI in Aranjuez.[13] She was sent to an all-male prison as she hadn't changed her name to Cristina nor her gender in her identity papers. She claimed that her parents didn't even know that she had entered prison until she rang them after being sent to the Gregorio Marañón Hospital due to health issues in 2004.

Media coverage[]
Upon leaving prison, in 2006, she moved to Valencia with friend Paca la Piraña. That same year Cristina told the media that she had been raped and abused by the prison guards.[14] This was disputed by the Spanish prison authorities. She openly spoke about her weight gain in prison as she reached 120kg during her time in prison, and she was invited onto several television programmes, marking an apparent recovery of her career. In October 2010, the sensationalist Spanish TV show ¿Dónde estás corazón? challenged La Veneno to lose all the weight she had put on. By March 2011, La Veneno had lost 35kg. It was subsequently revealed that she had been suffering from bulimia and severe depression, as well as suffering deep anxiety.

On 10 May 2013, La Veneno appeared on Sálvame Deluxe on Telecinco to tease her upcoming memoir Ni puta, ni santa (Las memorias de La Veneno) which was delayed until 2016. In August, she revealed that her ex-boyfriend had fled with all her savings, over 60,000 euros, and she was living on just €300 a month in benefits.[15] In 2014 she was sent back to prison, this time a female prison, for eight months.

On 3 October 2016, she finally launched her long-awaited memoir, co-written with the help of her friend, journalist and writer Valeria Vegas.[16]

Death[]

Commemorative plaque to La Veneno in Madrid.
On 5 November 2016, Cristina had been found semi-conscious in her house, covered with bruises and with a deep wound to the head, which caused a traumatic brain injury.[17] [18] She was found there by her boyfriend, and there were bloodstains in her bathroom. She was taken by ambulance to the Hospital Universitario La Paz, where she was placed in an induced coma as a preventative measure. She remained in intensive care. Cristina died four days later, on 9 November 2016.[19] The post mortem determined that the cause of death was an accidental fall.[20] She had apparently taken a very large dose of Xanax tablets and alcohol. A second post mortem reached the same verdict.

While she was hospitalised in the ICU,[21] people close to La Veneno speculated that the incident was not accidental,[22] because she received death threats after the publication of her autobiography,[23] which talked about affairs she had with powerful people.[24] Her ashes were scattered half in the Parque del Oeste, and half in her hometown of Adra. In April 2019, a plaque was unveiled to honour her in the Parque del Oeste.[25] A week later, the plaque was stolen.[26] In October 2020, the City Council of Madrid announced that the plaque would be replaced after many popular petitions were submitted.[27] It was collocated on December 4.

The 2020 TV series Veneno is based on her life.[28]
