Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-15T09:21:32+00:00

====== Aleesha Farhana (Kuala Terengganu - 30 Jul 2011) ======
Created Friday 15 January 2021
@medical






Aleesha Farhana
25
2011_07_30_Aleesha-Farhana.jpg
https://easycomeseasygoes.blogspot.com/2011/07/malaysian-transgender-mohd-ashraf.html
https://www.loyarburok.com/2011/08/01/court-aleesha-farhana-change-gender/
30 Jul 2011
Kuala Terengganu [Hospital Sultanah Nur Zahirah]
Terengganu
Malaysia
5.323906,103.148485
depression and cardiac arrest

inset image: https://justiceforsisters.files.wordpress.com/2015/07/11805691_10153569485398885_1225682093_n.jpg


Aleesha passed away in the intensive care unit of Hospital Sultanah Nur Zahirah shortly after a  Malaysian High Court rejected her application to correct her name on her identity documents.



This is a sad and tragic story of a Malaysian who wanted to change his gender status from male to female but died shortly after a Malaysian High Court rejected his application.

Mohd Ashraf Hafiz Abdul Aziz, 25, who failed in his bid to change his name to Aleesha Farhana after undergoing a sex change operation in Thailand, has died at the intensive care unit of Hospital Sultanah Nur Zahirah, Kuala Terengganu, Terengganu, Malaysia at 5 am on Saturday 30th July 2011.

Ashraf / Aleesha was admitted to the hospital at 3am on Friday, 29 July 2011 after experiencing heart problems and low blood pressure.

Doctors at the hospital said that Ashraf / Aleesha was suffering from unstable angina with cardiogenic shock.

Mohd Ashraf Hafiz or Aleesha Farhana, 25, had applied to the Kuala Terengganu High Court for an order to change his name and gender after undergoing sex change operation in Thailand in 2009 but it was rejected on July 18, 2011.

Ashraf / Aleesha was devastated by the verdict.

Ashraf / Aleesha’s depression was obvious and mentioned that he’d rather die fighting to change his name in his Identity Card and he was determined to make an appeal on the decision.


After her death the Malaysian trans community issued the following statement:

> **Statement from the Malaysian Trans community on Aleesha Farhana’s application to change her name and gender**
> 
> We, the members of the transgender community, are deeply shocked and saddened by the news of Aleesha Farhana’s passing. We believe the severe depression she suffered after the court’s dismissal of her application to change her name and gender resulted in her death. We would like to express our condolences to her friends and family and want them to know they are not alone.
> 
> We strongly condemn the decision of the High court judge, Datuk Yazid Mustafa, in dismissing Aleesha Farhana Abdul Aziz’s application to have her name and gender altered in her identity card. The ruling is inconsistent with the precedence established in 2005 when a mak nyah from Kuala Lumpur made the same application. Justice James Foong, in the case of JG v Pengarah Jabatan Pendaftaran Negara 2005, had then held in favour of the mak nyah in question. (appendix 1)
> 
> Aleesha had expressed desires to further her studies and it is for this reason she wished to change her name and gender on her official documents. Just like everyone else, Aleesha and many like us are striving to better ourselves and contribute to society. Aleesha and all Malaysian trans people deserve the same opportunities as others to improve the quality of our lives and pursue our dreams.
> 
> The court should have allowed Aleesha to change her name and gender. And it is still not too late to change it. Her rights and the court’s duty must not be held hostage by the sensitivities of those who are ignorant about transgenderism. By denying her her right, the court is perpetuating an environment of discrimination within which she will never find the justice due her.
> 
> Trans people like Aleesha face extreme levels of stigma and discrimination in Malaysia. The discrimination is often perpetuated by biased, negative reporting from the media and endorsed by state mouthpieces, fueling the public to further hate, marginalise and abuse an already vulnerable group of people. These abuses, ranging from physical violence to mental torture to sexual assault, happen from when we are still children right into our adulthood. Lack of attempts to understand us have resulted in many being kicked out of families, schools and work. We are often prevented from accessing health services, housing, education, employment, and other basic rights enjoyed by all Malaysians. Without the law on our side, we are left without legal recourse to redress any injustice and abuse we suffered.
> 
> The unwillingness of the Malaysian government to recognise trans people as equal before the law facilitates this ugly persistence in violating us. Official recognition has in fact been granted by both Asian and Islamic nations. These include Singapore which recognises male-to-female transpeople and female-to-male transpeople; Nepal and Pakistan which recognise trans people as “third gender”; Iran, Egypt, Thailand, India and Pakistan, where sex reassignment surgeries are allowed and conducted.
> 
> These policies are justified by many scientific studies that have documented transgenderism as a condition resulting from many varied biological causes. Forcing trans people to behave in accordance to external sexual organs have been counterproductive to mental and physical health. However, through a variety of remedies now available, including hormonal therapy and sex reassignment surgeries, many trans people have been able to live happily and productively according to the gender identity with which we identify.
> 
> We urge the relevant authorities to take necessary measures and immediately act to create an enabling and safer environment for Malaysian trans people. This includes the repeal of laws that criminalise trans people for our identity, dressing and mannerisms. The government must set up a nationwide consultation with the trans community as soon as possible in order to better understand our issues. We also demand that the Malaysian media address us by the gender pronoun with which we identify. It is about time we have policies, programmes, services and legal remedies that meet trans people’s needs as defined by us.
> 
> We request that all concerned work to realising the spirit and intent of Article 5(1) of the Federal Constitution which clearly states that no person shall be deprived of his/her life or personal liberty save in accordance with the law. This article is strongly aligned to Principle 17 of the Yogjakarta Principles, which emphasises that:
> 
> Everyone has the right to the highest attainable standard of physical and mental health, without discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation or gender identity. Sexual and reproductive health is a fundamental aspect of this right.
> 
> In June 2011, the United Nations Human Rights Council (UNHRC) passed a resolution to document discriminatory laws and practices and acts of violence based on sexual orientation and gender identity, and to study how to end human rights violations based on sexual orientation and gender identity. The international community stands with all of us in Malaysia whose rights have been violated for our gender identity. We therefore remind the Malaysian government of the pledges it made to become a member of the UN Human Rights Council, and as a member of the UN Human Rights Council, Malaysia is obliged to respect and uphold the human rights of all, equally and unconditionally.
> 
> We will continue the fight for justice, equality and legal recognition of all trans people in Malaysia. Malaysia is our home too. Aleesha’s life and struggle must not be in vain.
> 
> REST IN POWER ALEESHA FARHANA



4 years ago on 30th July 2011, Aleesha Farhana died of a heart attack and depression following a painful legal battle to just to be herself. rest in power Aleesha ??

“One of the bravest young women I will never know passed away in conditions of extreme physical distress and unimaginable mental anguish at approximately 5am on July the 30th, 2011. Her name was Aleesha Farhana.

Buoyed by the sanction of State, Religious Authority and Community, she was buried in a grave that will carry the wrong name; a name not hers by choice, because she was one of the few people on the planet that get to choose their own name to reflect the reality of their being. Aleesha had chosen to be a woman: the woman that she knew herself to be.” Omar Salahuddin, 31 July 2011, malaysian insider


KUALA TERENGGANU: Mohd Ashraf Hafiz Abdul Aziz, 25, who failed to have a name change to Aleesha Farhana after undergoing a sex change operation in Thailand, has died at the intensive care unit of Hospital Sultanah Nur Zahirah.

Bernama reported that the patient was admitted to the hospital at 3am on Thursday after experiencing heart problems and low blood pressure and died at 5am on Saturday.

Father of the deceased Abdul Aziz Ahmad, 60, when contacted, said the family was waiting for family members and relatives to return to Kuala Terengganu and that the funeral would be held after the mid-day prayers Saturday.

Doctors at the hospital on Friday said the deceased was suffering from unstable angina with cardiogenic shock.

The deceased, 25, had applied to the Kuala Terengganu High Court for an order to change name and gender but it was rejected on July 18.

In Kuala Lumpur, Women, Family and Community Development Minister Datuk Seri Shahrizat Abdul Jalil said that she was deeply saddened that her ministry was not able to provide counselling in time to the deceased.

Shahrizat said her ministry from early on had offered to provide counselling to the deceased but now fate had intervened.

“We were concerned about his wellbeing. My ministry is welfare-oriented and we are non-judgemental.

“We try to understand and counsel anyone who needs our help, especially people who feel desperate like in the case of Ashraf, but for him, it is too late now,” she said when met on arrival at Putra World Trade Centre here where the Wanita Umno chief was due to chair a meeting of the Umno wing's executive committee.

Shahrizat also extended her condolences to the family and hoped they would remain strong in this difficult time.

“If the family needs any help they can contact me or the nearest Welfare Department office,” she said.

Meanwhile, a candlelight vigil will be held at 8pm Saturday by Seksualiti Merdeka in front of the Bar Council at Lebuh Pasar Besar.






SIS is saddened to learn of the death of Aleesha Farhana Abdul Aziz so soon after the High Court ruled that she could not live out her life as a woman even after she had undergone a sex reassignment surgery. Aleesha had applied to the court to change her name from Mohd Ashraf Hafiz Abdul Aziz to Aleesha Farhana Abd Aziz, but on 18 July 2011 the High Court rejected her application. Aleesha also had applied for the names on her birth certificate and MyKad to be changed to reflect the sex which she regarded as her true self.

SIS finds it difficult to understand the unwillingness of the High Court to recognise the right of transgendered persons to be identified by the sex that they perceive themselves to be. The courts in many Muslim countries such as Pakistan, Kuwait, Iran, have granted transgendered persons the right to choose the sex they most closely identify with. Al-Azhar University in Cairo has also declared a fatwa permitting sex reassignment surgery under certain medical conditions – especially if not consenting to the procedure would lead to dire psychological and emotional consequences for the applicant. It is regrettable that the Malaysian courts have not followed these just and compassionate precedents.

SIS sends its condolences to Aleesha Farhana’s family. Society has already caused them so much pain and suffering. We wish them peace, patience and fortitude in their time of grief, particularly throughout this holy month of Ramadhan.

 

Ratna Osman
Acting Executive Director
Sisters in Islam (SIS Forum Malaysia)



Her Circle of Society Treated Her as Scum, She was mocked, cursed & given death threats. All This done in the name of Religion.

(NST) AS a journalist, a phone call in the wee hours is not extraordinary, but the call I received from Ashraf's mother, Mak Yah, at 1.45am yesterday came as a shock.

I first met Mak Yah only a few weeks ago, after she agreed to be interviewed about the negative stories about her family stemming from her son Mohd Ashraf Hafiz Abd Aziz's application to change his name to Aleesha Farhana in his MyKad. During the interview, she told me about her family's plight in seeking a solution for Ashraf, who underwent a sex-change surgery in Thailand two years ago.

She was very distraught when talking about the humiliation of being branded as a bad mother by those who blamed her as the cause of her eldest son's "condition".

However, her sadness during the interview was nothing compared with the intense grief she felt when doctors told her that Ashraf's life was slipping away."We are going back to the hospital as the doctors have informed us that his blood pressure has dropped to a very low level," she said, her voice cracking as she tried to rein in her emotions.

I was shocked and searched for the correct words to say to Mak Yah.I thought about my interview with Ashraf a few weeks ago.I felt a chill as Ashraf's words came back to haunt me. "It's going to be Ramadan soon. I hope you and your wife can break fast with my family although I have a feeling that I will not be able to celebrate Hari Raya Aidilfitri this year."In the end, I just babbled a few words about being strong to Mak Yah.My heart skipped a beat when I saw a new short messaging service text on my handphone at 6.15am. My worst fears were confirmed when I read it."Al-fatihah for Mohd Ashraf Hafiz who passed away at 5am today," it read.

Questions raced through my mind as to whether I had done enough for Ashraf, a fellow Muslim and human being.Ashraf was rather apprehensive about giving me an interview. He said he would only agree to it if he was portrayed as a human being, not as a freak or a news item. He brought me to meet his parents, Mak Yah and Abdul Aziz Ahmad, later that evening.As a parent myself, I could understand Mak Yah's feelings as she poured her heart out that night. She complained about how people had commented that Ashraf was better off dead."It was cruel of them to make such comments, as if my son's life is worthless."

At Sultanah Nur Zahirah hospital morgue yesterday, I met Mak Yah again."I had often prayed for the best for Ashraf. God loved him and has taken him before us although he is much younger. I believe God has decided that's the best for him."I was again at a loss for words as Mak Yah had said it all.Rest in peace and al-fatihah for Ashraf.May God have mercy on him and on us, the living, who often take for granted the "luxury" of being regarded as humans.

https://thischildaintyours.blogspot.com/2011/07/rest-now-aleesha-farhana.html

https://www.thestar.com.my/news/nation/2011/07/30/transgender-aleesha-dies-candlelight-vigil-planned-for-saturday-night

https://www.loyarburok.com/2011/08/05/sis-statement-passing-aleesha-farhana/

https://jalphonsa.blogspot.com/2011/08/ashrafaleesha-farhana-was-denied-human.html

https://easycomeseasygoes.blogspot.com/2011/07/malaysian-transgender-mohd-ashraf.html

https://www.asiaone.com/News/AsiaOne%2BNews/Malaysia/Story/A1Story20110731-291926.html

https://www.ieyra.com/2011/07/mohd-ashraf-hafiz-abdul-aziz-aleesya.html

https://www.loyarburok.com/2011/08/01/court-aleesha-farhana-change-gender/
