Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-11-19T10:12:57+00:00

====== Medical ======
Created Thursday 19 November 2020
@medical



Sylvia Rivera
50
[born : 2 Jul 1951]
19 Feb 2002
USA
cancer


How Sylvia Rivera Created the Blueprint for Transgender Organizing
The trans activist's most enduring legacy lies in the institutions she built, inspired, and forced to change.

May 21 2019 7:00 AM EDT

Two years before her death, Stonewall veteran Sylvia Rivera served as muse for a photography series captured by Valerie Shaff. The black-and-white images feature the outspoken activist dolled up with razor-thin eyebrows, a bold lip, and wind-strewn hair on a makeshift encampment near the Hudson River. A nearly 50-year-old Rivera was living there in protest of the mostly gay- and lesbian-focused organizations and community groups at the time — particularly, The Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Community Center (then known as the Lesbian and Gay Community Services Center Inc.), which was mere city blocks away.

Rivera contended that the mainstream LGBTQ+ organizations were ignoring the needs of local homeless youth and transgender people. For her, the LGBTQ+ nonprofit industrial complex had grown into something far different from the initiatives she’d spearheaded throughout her lifetime.

“Sylvia was really for the democratization of our movement. She was unwilling to have an agenda be set behind closed doors by the most elite people in the community,” says Dean Spade, a trans activist and associate professor at Seattle University School of Law.  “We see this even now: There are always battles over how homeless people and people with psychiatric disabilities are treated at LGBTQ+ centers and events. The battles over those exclusions are an example of carrying on Sylvia’s work in a deep way.”

When Rivera left the world due to complications from liver cancer in 2002, her work served as a bridge: on one side, the advocacy world dominated by gay men and lesbians who had historically excluded trans people; and on the other, an increasingly more vocal trans community and an uprising of trans-led organizations. For this next generation of activists, Rivera’s groundbreaking creation of Street Transvestite Action Revolutionaries (STAR) and the accompanying STAR House represented one of the first major initiatives centering trans and gender nonconforming people in our community.

According to Trap Door: Trans Cultural Production and the Politics of Visibility edited by Tourmaline, Eric A. Stanley, and Johanna Burton, “Rivera and [Marsha P.] Johnson have especially been invoked by contemporary advocates working to imagine a world beyond today’s neoliberal and homonormative social justice landscape.” As the volume notes, there were other organizations at the time with varying degrees of radicalism in their politics — the Queens Liberation Front, the Transvestite Legal Committee, and the Transexual Action Organization among them. Nonetheless, STAR has had the most enduring legacy.

This is particularly notable, considering STAR’s first iteration disbanded after the 1973 Christopher Street Liberation Day. During the march, which is a precursor to today’s Pride celebrations, Rivera and her cohorts were heckled by onlookers and fellow participants, mainly gay men and lesbians who were unsupportive of STAR’s organizing efforts. At the time, STAR (and the trans community in general) was deemed adjacent to the priorities of Gay Liberation, and organizers worried their inclusion would send the wrong message to the press and general public.

In fact, it wasn’t just STAR that disbanded. “Sylvia left the movement after the first few years because she had been refused the right to speak after one of the Pride marches,” says Randy Wicker, a longtime activist and late-in-life friend of Rivera’s. “She left for 20 years.”

But in 1992, when she learned of the mysterious death of her friend and fellow organizer, Marsha P. Johnson, Rivera was lured back into organizing work. Some eight years later, a 25-year-old transgender woman named Amanda Milan was killed by two men in the streets of New York. Milan’s brutal murder, which occurred just before that year’s Pride Parade, crystallized Rivera’s enduring frustrations with the queer community: When Matthew Shepard was killed, his death prompted widespread outrage, organization, press outreach, television spots, and even legislative attention. Rivera, reignited, refused to let Milan pass without demanding the same outrage.

Following Rivera’s lead, the trans community mobilized around Milan’s murder, prompting an astounding 300 people to attend her funeral. Rivera, still unafraid to call out the transmisogynistic respectability politics of the cis gay elite, was disappointed that the Human Rights Campaign, now the largest LGBTQ+ advocacy group in the United States, hadn’t taken up the often overlooked murders of transgender people as a worthy cause. “Trans people were very angry at the Human Rights Campaign. You don’t realize how marginalized trans people were. HRC considered them a fringe group,” Wicker remembers. “I don’t think they had any understanding of gender identity and issues of freedom and gender expression.” Tired of waiting for their reform, Rivera instead remade STAR. Milan’s death became a symbol: tears shed transformed into a rallying cry.

Despite continued silencing and erasure from the larger landscape of LGBTQ+ nonprofits, Rivera fought fiercely in the last two years of her life. She continued to publicly excoriate the proposed Sexual Orientation Non-Discrimination Act (SONDA), which had been periodically introduced since the 1970s and failed to provide protections for trans people. Wicker recalls Rivera meeting with the Empire State Pride Agenda on her deathbed, pleading that trans people not be left out of the legislation. Ultimately, they were — and gender identity wouldn’t be included in the law until New York Governor David Paterson issued an executive order seven years later.

Within a year of Rivera’s death in February 2002, the beginnings of a national network of trans-led organizations began to emerge. Transgender Law Center was founded in San Francisco in July of that year by recent law school graduates Dylan Vade and Chris Daly. A month later, Spade exalted the legacy of Rivera in the formation of the Sylvia Rivera Law Project, a multiracial legal aid organization centering trans, gender nonconforming, and intersex people who are low-income. While he was inspired in part by his own discriminatory run-ins with law enforcement and the legal system as a trans man, he also set out to enshrine the radical, intersectional approach to organizing and activism that Rivera utilized throughout her life.

“We designed our organization as a collective, using a horizontal structure. We don’t pay lawyers more than we pay people who don’t have a degree. We’re focused on trying to actually build the political capacity of our movements and make change from [the most marginalized],” Spade says. “I think all of that work is in the vein of what Sylvia was asking for because she came from movements in the ‘60s and ‘70s that were very much volunteer-based, grassroots, and trying to build mass mobilizations.”

In the next decade, more trans organizations and initiatives would find their footing, including the National Center for Transgender Equality. And now, more than 15 years after Rivera’s death, the landscape of trans-led organizations across the U.S. looks drastically different. In fact, Borealis Philanthropy’s Fund for Trans Generations (FTG), which supports trans-led initiatives, boasted supporting 93 groups and organizations in 2018. That same year, The Trans Justice Funding Project aided nearly twice as many specifically grassroots efforts.

Though often forgotten or completely erased, Rivera’s impact far exceeds the lore and legend surrounding her involvement in the Stonewall Riots. Her decades-long commitment to building infrastructure for trans and gender nonconforming people to thrive has had a lasting impact on the world of organizing, on an almost molecular level. In any instance of trans social justice work, a fair question of measure would be, “What would Sylvia do?”

“Sylvia was a very disruptive person who entered movement spaces and demanded to be heard and wasn’t afraid to break the rules, make people uncomfortable, and push for things that were unhearable inside some of the white-led gay and lesbian politics that were more dominant,” Spade says. “The tradition of those kind of tactics are something we really hold on to by lifting her up and honoring her in all of her depth.”

Eight months before her death, Rivera was invited to speak at the Lesbian, Gay, Bisexual, and Transgender Community Center, the institution that had once ignored her pleas for support on behalf of the trans community. In a signature moment of righteous defiance, as chronicled by Lawrence La Fountain-Stokes in the Center for Puerto Rican Studies' 2007 CENTRO Journal, she said, “The trans community has allowed the gay and lesbian community to speak for us. Times are changing. Our armies are rising and we are getting stronger. And when we come a-knocking — that includes from here to Albany to Washington — they're going to know that you don't fuck with the transgender community.”

Correction: The final quote from Sylvia Rivera at the LGBT Community Center omitted a necessary attribution to Lawrence La Fountain-Stokes and CENTRO Journal for the original transcription and documentation.

Sylvia Rivera is one part of a triple cover for Out's June/July 2019 Pride issue, which also features actress Mj Rodriguez and presidential candidate Pete Buttigieg. To read more, grab your own copy of the issue on Kindle, Nook, Zinio or (newly) Apple News+ today. Preview more of the issue here and click here to subscribe.



Sylvia Rivera
From Wikipedia, the free encyclopedia

Known for	Gay liberation,[1] transgender activist, advocate for the homeless.[2]

Sylvia Rivera (July 2, 1951 – February 19, 2002) was a Latina American gay liberation, and transgender rights activist[3][4][5] who was also a noted community worker in New York. Rivera, who identified as a drag queen,[6][7][8] participated in demonstrations with the Gay Liberation Front.[9]

With close friend Marsha P. Johnson, Rivera co-founded the Street Transvestite Action Revolutionaries (STAR), a group dedicated to helping homeless young drag queens, gay youth, and trans women.[10]

Early life
Rivera was born and raised in New York City and lived most of her life in or near the city; she was of Puerto Rican and Venezuelan descent.[6] She was abandoned by her birth father José Rivera early in life and became an orphan after her mother died by suicide when Rivera was three years old.[11] Rivera was then raised by her Venezuelan grandmother, who disapproved of Rivera's effeminate behavior, particularly after Rivera began to wear makeup in fourth grade.[11] As a result, Rivera began living on the streets at the age of 11 and was forced to work as a child prostitute. She was taken in by the local community of drag queens, who gave her the name Sylvia.[12]

Activism
Rivera's activism began in 1970 after she joined the Gay Activists Alliance at 18 years old, where she fought for not only the rights of gay people but also for the inclusion of drag queens like herself in the movement.[13] Rivera sometimes exaggerated her importance, purporting to have been active during the civil rights movement and through the movement against the Vietnam war and second-wave feminist movements, but she could not prove her claims.[13] After her older friend, Marsha P. Johnson, was being praised for being involved in the Stonewall Riots, Rivera claimed that she was also present there.[13][14] Stonewall historian David Carter, however, questioned Rivera's claims to have ever been at the riots that night, based on contradictory statements she made as well as testimony relayed to him by early gay rights activists, including Marsha P. Johnson, who denied Rivera was present at the riots.[15]

In 1973, Rivera famously spoke at a gay rights rally after she and Johnson were reportedly banned for making other gay activists "look bad". Afterwards, she told anyone who would listen that she was involved in the Stonewall riots, to which Johnson replied, "Sylvia, you know you weren't there", after which Rivera was silent.[13] When the Stonewall riots occurred, Rivera was only 17 years old and according to Bob Kohler, who was there on the two nights of the riots, "always hung out uptown at Bryant Park" and never came downtown.[13] Johnson told gay rights historian Eric Marcus in 1987 that in the hours prior to her arriving downtown to join the other protesters at the riots, she had a party uptown and mentioned that "Rivera and them were over in the [Bryant] park having a cocktail."[13] Kohler told Carter that, although Rivera had not been at the uprising, he hoped Carter would nonetheless portray her as having been there. Another Stonewall veteran, Thomas Lanigan-Schmidt, claimed that he wanted to add her "so that young Puerto Rican transgender people on the street would have a role model."[13] Kohler and Rivera had a discussion over what to include in the book and denied Rivera's requests to be portrayed as being the one to throw the first molotov cocktail, throwing the first brick, and having thrown the first bottle, only allowing Rivera to be portrayed as someone who had "thrown a bottle" as opposed to being "the first".[13] Randy Wicker, who was part of the Mattachine Society and was an early critic of the violent, militant tactics used by Johnson and other Stonewall veterans, said Johnson had told him that Sylvia was not at Stonewall "as she was asleep after taking heroin uptown".[13] Rivera would also claim to have been involved in Puerto Rican and African American youth activism, particularly with the Young Lords and Black Panthers.[11]

At different times in her life, Rivera battled substance abuse and lived on the streets, largely in the gay homeless community at the Christopher Street docks.[2] Her experiences made her more focused on advocacy for those who, in her view, mainstream society and the assimilationist sectors of the gay community was leaving behind.[16] For these reasons Rivera projected her voice to give her community power. She fought for herself but most importantly for the rights of people of color and low-income LGBT people. As someone who suffered from systematic poverty and racism, Rivera used her voice for unity, sharing her stories, pain, and struggles to show her community they are not alone. She amplified the voices of the most vulnerable members of the gay community: drag queens, homeless youth, gay inmates in prison and jail, and transgender people.[17]

Johnson was Rivera's close friend, and the two often worked together politically. Their discussions led to activism and in 1970, Rivera and Johnson co-founded Street Transvestite Action Revolutionaries (STAR). STAR offered services and advocacy for homeless queer youth,[18] and fought for the Sexual Orientation Non-Discrimination Act in New York. SONDA prohibits discrimination on the basis of sexual orientation in employment, housing, public accommodations, education, credit, and the exercise of civil rights.[12]

At the 1973 Christopher Street Liberation Day Rally in New York City, Rivera, representing STAR, gave a brief speech from the main stage in which she called out the heterosexual males who were preying on vulnerable members of the community. Rivera espoused what could be seen as a third gender perspective, saying that LGBT prisoners seeking help "do not write women. They do not write men. They write to STAR."[19] At the same event, Rivera and fellow queen Lee Brewster jumped onstage during feminist activist Jean O'Leary's speech and shouts at the crowd her “Y’all Better Quiet Down," speech, stating, "You go to bars because of what drag queens did for you, and these bitches tell us to quit being ourselves!"[16][20]

In early July 1992, shortly after the New York City Pride March, Johnson's body was found floating in the Hudson River off the West Village Piers. Police promptly ruled Johnson's death a suicide, despite the presence of a head wound.[21] Johnson's friends and supporters, Rivera included, insisted Johnson had not been suicidal, and a people's postering campaign later declared that Johnson had earlier been harassed near the spot where her body was found. In May 1995, Rivera tried to commit suicide by walking into the Hudson River.[22] That year she also appeared in the Arthur Dong documentary episode "Out Rage '69", part of the PBS series The Question of Equality,[23] and gave an extensive interview to gay journalist Randy Wicker in which she discussed her suicide attempts, Johnson's life and death, and her advocacy for poor and working-class gay people made homeless by the AIDS crisis.[2]

In the last five years of her life, Rivera renewed her political activity, giving many speeches about the Stonewall Uprising[24] and the necessity for transgender people, including drag queens and butch dykes, to fight for their legacy at the forefront of the LGBT movement. She traveled to Italy for the Millennium March in 2000, where she was acclaimed as the "mother of all gay people".[14] In early 2001, after a service at the Metropolitan Community Church of New York referring to the Star of Bethlehem announcing the birth of Jesus, she decided to resurrect STAR as an active political organization (now changing "Transvestite" to the more recently coined term "Transgender," which at that time was understood to include all gender-nonconforming people).[25] STAR fought for the New York City Transgender Rights Bill and for a trans-inclusive New York State Sexual Orientation Non Discrimination Act. STAR also sponsored street pressures for justice for Amanda Milan, a transgender woman murdered in 2000.[14] Rivera attacked Human Rights Campaign and Empire State Pride Agenda as organizations that were standing in the way of transgender rights. On her deathbed she met with Matt Foreman and Joe Grabarz of ESPA to negotiate transgender inclusion in its political structure and agenda.

Rivera was angered by her perception that the significance of drag queens and drag culture was being minimized by the ostensibly assimilationist gay rights agenda, particularly by new would-be "gay leaders" who were focusing on military service (Don't Ask Don't Tell) and marriage equality.[14][26] Rivera's conflicts with these newer LGBT groups were emblematic of the mainstream LGBT movement's strained relationship to the radical politics of many earlier gay liberation activists. After Rivera's death, Michael Bronski recalled her anger when she felt that she was being marginalized within the community:

After Gay Liberation Front folded and the more reformist Gay Activists Alliance (GAA) became New York's primary gay rights group, Sylvia Rivera worked hard within their ranks in 1971 to promote a citywide gay rights, anti-discrimination ordinance. But for all of her work, when it came time to make deals, GAA dropped the portions in the civil rights bill that dealt with transvestitism and drag — it just wasn't possible to pass it with such "extreme" elements included. As it turned out, it wasn't possible to pass the bill anyway until 1986. But not only was the language of the bill changed, GAA — which was becoming increasingly more conservative, several of its founders and officers had plans to run for public office — even changed its political agenda to exclude issues of transvestitism and drag. It was also not unusual for Sylvia to be urged to "front" possibly dangerous demonstrations, but when the press showed up, she would be pushed aside by the more middle-class, "straight-appearing" leadership. In 1995, Rivera was still hurt: "When things started getting more mainstream, it was like, 'We don't need you no more'". But, she added, "Hell hath no fury like a drag queen scorned".[27]

According to Bronski, Rivera was banned from New York's Gay & Lesbian Community Center for several years in the mid-1990s, because, on a cold winter's night, she aggressively demanded that the Center take care of poor and homeless queer youth. A short time before her death, Bronski reports that she said:

One of our main goals now is to destroy the Human Rights Campaign, because I'm tired of sitting on the back of the bumper. It's not even the back of the bus anymore — it's the back of the bumper. The bitch on wheels is back.[27]

Rivera's struggles did not relate exclusively to gay and trans people, as they intersected with issues of poverty and discrimination faced by people of color, which caused friction in the GAA as it was mainly made up of white middle-class gay people.[28] The transgender person-of-color activist and scholar Jessi Gan discusses how mainstream LGBT groups have routinely dismissed or not paid sufficient attention to Rivera's Latina identity, while Puerto Rican and Latino groups have often not fully acknowledged Rivera's contribution to their struggles for civil rights.[11] Tim Retzloff has discussed this issue with respect to the omission of discussions about race and ethnicity in mainstream U.S. LGBT history, particularly with regard to Rivera's legacy.[29]

Gender identity
Rivera's gender identity was complex and varied throughout her life.[6][2] In 1971, she spoke of herself as a "half sister".[30] In her essay "Transvestites: Your Half Sisters and Half Brothers of the Revolution", she specifically claims her use of transvestite as applying to only the gay community: "Transvestites are homosexual men and women who dress in clothes of the opposite sex."[30]

In interviews and writings in her later years, notably her 1995 interview with Randy Wicker and her 2002 essay, "Queens In Exile, The Forgotten Ones," she expressed a fluid take on gender and sexuality, referring to herself alternately as a gay man,[4] a gay girl,[2] a drag queen/street queen,[6][7][8] and again as a gay man,[6] embodying all of these experiences and seeing none of these identities as excluding the others.[6] Rivera writes of having considered gender reassignment surgery much earlier in life, but of ultimately choosing to reject it, taking hormones only near the end of her life.[6]

I left home at age 10 in 1961. I hustled on 42nd Street. The early 60s was not a good time for drag queens, effeminate boys or boys that wore makeup like we did. Back then we were beat up by the police, by everybody. I didn't really come out as a drag queen until the late 60s when drag queens were arrested, what degradation there was. I remember the first time I got arrested, I wasn't even in full drag. I was walking down the street and the cops just snatched me.[31] People now want to call me a lesbian because I'm with Julia,[32] and I say, "No. I'm just me. I'm not a lesbian." I'm tired of being labeled. I don't even like the label transgender. I'm tired of living with labels. I just want to be who I am. I am Sylvia Rivera. Ray Rivera left home at the age of 10 to become Sylvia. And that's who I am.[6]

Death
Rivera died during the dawn hours of February 19, 2002, at St. Vincent's Hospital, of complications from liver cancer.[1] Activist Riki Wilchins noted, "In many ways, Sylvia was the Rosa Parks of the modern transgender movement, a term that was not even coined until two decades after Stonewall".[33]

Legacy
As an active member of the Metropolitan Community Church of New York, Rivera ministered through the Church's food pantry, which provides food to hungry people. As well, recalling her life as a child on the streets, she remained a passionate advocate for queer youth. MCC New York has a food pantry called the Sylvia Rivera Food Pantry, and its queer youth shelter is called Sylvia's Place, both in her honor.[34]

Season 1, episode 1 and Season 3, episode 1 of the podcast “Making Gay History” are about her.[35][36]

Named in her honor (and established in 2002), the Sylvia Rivera Law Project is dedicated "to guarantee that all people are free to self-determine gender identity and expression, regardless of income or race, and without facing harassment, discrimination or violence".[37]

In 2002, actor/comedian Jade Esteban Estrada portrayed Rivera in the well-received solo musical ICONS: The Lesbian and Gay History of the World, Vol. 1 (directed by Aliza Washabaugh-Durand and produced by Aliza Washabaugh-Durand and Christopher Durand) winning Rivera renewed national attention.[38]

In 2005, the corner of Christopher and Hudson streets was renamed "Sylvia Rivera Way" in her honor. This intersection is in Greenwich Village, the neighborhood in New York City where Rivera started organizing, and is only two blocks from the Stonewall Inn.[39]

In January 2007, a new musical based upon Rivera's life, Sylvia So Far, premiered in New York at La Mama in a production starring Bianca Leigh as Rivera and Peter Proctor as Marsha P. Johnson. The composer and lyricist is Timothy Mathis (Wallflowers, Our Story Too, The Conjuring), a friend of Rivera's in real life. The show moved off-Broadway in the winter of 2007/2008.[citation needed]

The Spring 2007 issue of CENTRO: Journal of the Center for Puerto Rican Studies, which was dedicated to "Puerto Rican Queer Sexualities" and published at Hunter College, included a special dossier on Rivera, including a transcription of a talk by Rivera from 2001 as well as two academic essays exploring the intersections of Rivera's trans and Latina identities.[11][14][29] The articles in this journal issue complement other essays by Puerto Rican scholars who have also emphasized Rivera's pioneering role.[40][41]

In 2014, The Social Justice Hub at The New School’s newly opened University Center was named the Baldwin Rivera Boggs Center after activists James Baldwin, Sylvia Rivera, and Grace Lee Boggs.[42]

In 2015, a portrait of Rivera was added to the National Portrait Gallery, making Rivera the first transgender activist to be featured in the gallery.[43]

In 2016, Rivera was inducted into the Legacy Walk.[44]

In 2018, Happy Birthday, Marsha! a short film about Rivera and Marsha P. Johnson, set in the hours before the 1969 Stonewall riots in New York City, was released.[45]

A large, painted mural depicting Rivera and Marsha P. Johnson went on display in Dallas, Texas in 2019 to commemorate the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots. The painting of the "two pioneers of the gay rights movement" in front of a transgender flag claims to be the world's largest mural honoring the trans community.[46]

In May 2019, it was announced that LGBT rights activists Marsha P. Johnson and Sylvia Rivera would be commemorated with a monument in New York's Greenwich Village, near the epicenter of the historic Stonewall riots. The monument was publicly announced on May 30, in honor of the 50th anniversary of Stonewall and just in time for Pride month.[47]

In June 2019, the Italian city of Livorno dedicated a green area to Rivera, called Parco Sylvia Rivera.[48]

In June 2019, Rivera was one of the inaugural fifty American “pioneers, trailblazers, and heroes” inducted on the National LGBTQ Wall of Honor within the Stonewall National Monument (SNM) in New York City’s Stonewall Inn.[49][50] The SNM is the first U.S. national monument dedicated to LGBTQ rights and history,[51] and the wall’s unveiling was timed to take place during the 50th anniversary of the Stonewall riots.[52]

https://www.out.com/pride/2019/5/21/how-sylvia-rivera-created-blueprint-transgender-organizing

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Sylvia_Rivera
