Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-28T08:02:21+00:00

====== Alex (Cambridgeshire - Apr 2020) ======
Created Thursday 28 January 2021
@suicide



"Alex"
Apr 2020
Cambridgeshire
United Kingdom
suicide


Cambs dad opens up about the painful reality of losing a trans child to suicide

A Cambridgeshire dad has bravely opened up about the devastating reality of losing a trans child during the lockdown.

John, from East Cambridgeshire, lost his child Alex to suicide in April 2020. (Names have been changed for anonymity).

The dad is sharing his story in the hope it will increase understanding among parents and raise awareness about the high suicide rates in LGBTQ+ youth.

According to research from national LGBT charity Stonewall, more than one in four transgender young people have suffered a suicide attempt, with nine in 10 having experienced suicidal thoughts.

“When Alex changed their name, it was a surprise to us but we supported it.

"I think some trans teenagers have a poor perception of how their parents are going to deal with the changes going on for them.

"Sometimes that suspicion may be justified, sometimes we can surprise them.

“When they started to bring home partners we’d treat them as we would our other children’s boyfriends or girlfriends.”

Because of some experiences as a child, Alex had a negative association with mental health services.

They received exceptional LGBTQ+ support from their school and in-community services however Alex already had a history of self-harm, Alex's dad said.

“We had been in touch with MIND and the A&E crisis team, but Alex had distrust in mental health professionals.”


The reason why so many trans people fundraise for surgeries
"We wanted to keep on good terms with them"
Alex eventually decided to try and live away from home: “That was a bit of a bombshell as they hadn’t yet completed school. Their siblings didn’t know either, and they shared everything. But we lived in a small village away from their social life and Alex had done their homework and found a room at a charity provider.”

So they took Alex to see the room: “We talked about it, and though we wanted Alex to stay at home, we felt if we pushed we would make them more unhappy.

"We wanted to keep on good terms with them and be able to visit, take them for coffee and teach them how to drive, rather than lose all contact. So we agreed and helped them move out. We hoped they would be back with us in time.”

Once Alex moved out they brought up changing their name. John said: “I knew I would trip up and say the wrong name at first, but I told them, ‘you are who you feel you are.’

"I suggested using it for a while before changing it officially.”

They hung the name change certificate on the wall in Alex's bedroom and John changed Alex’s email address for them. But due to the move, Alex had to change GP’s. This meant the support Alex received before suddenly stopped and was told they were too close to the cut-off age for children’s services to be referred for further support.

If you or someone you know is feeling unsafe you can reach out to the local services below:
Type your postcode into the Hub of Hope app to find your local mental health services who can support you.

Call NHS First Response Service on 111, option 2 for 24 hour emergency support. You will be put through to NHS First Response staff who can talk you through your needs. (If you are in Wisbech select option 1).

Samaritans on 116 123 for someone to talk to 24 hours a day, who can also signpost you to other services to help you access support.

Lifeline on 0808 808 21 21 9am – 11pm every weekday is a Cambridge mental health helpline.  2pm-11pm Weekends and Bank Holidays.

CALM (Campaign Against Living Miserably) who campaign against male suicide have a dedicated helpline 5pm-midnight daily 0800 58 58 58.

Shout is a crisis text line on 85258

One Call Away is a 24 line for the Gypsy, Roma and Traveller community that you can call, text or Whatsapp if you’re feeling unsafe or want someone to talk to. Contact Mark on +447383 561 735 or Caroline on +447748 997 617.

Reach out to CPSL Mind for support here.

Papyrus supports young people at risk of suicide on 0800 068 4141 (helpline 10am – 10pm, Monday – Friday and 2pm – 5pm, weekends and bankholidays) or text 07786 209697.

Survivors of Bereavement by Suicide supports those who have experienced a loss on 0300 111 5065 (9am to 9pm)

For more guidance and advice visit Stop Suicide Pledge.

John said Alex was impacted by the long NHS waiting lists to be seen for gender dysphoria: “Alex felt the gender clinics were woefully underfunded. Waiting as a young growing trans person means they are becoming more and more the gender they don’t want to be which causes significant dislike in their own body.”

But when lockdown hit, Alex was furloughed from a job they had found meaning in.

Not long after that, Alex asked if they could come home.

John agreed to pick Alex up the following morning, but that same evening a policewoman arrived at the door.

In every parent's worst nightmare, the officer said Alex had been found dead from a suspected suicide.

“We only found out after that, that Alex had changed their pronouns. I wish we’d known all along but I think Alex didn’t want to put us through that.

"Because of Covid-19, we could only have a small funeral and their grave was decorated with rainbow flags. We plan to celebrate their life fully when we can," John said.

LGBTQ+ support in Cambridgeshire
If you identify as LGBTQ+ and need support, or just want to meet like-minded people, there are plenty of places for you here in Cambridgeshire:

Centre 33 youth support helpline for up to 25 year olds - 0333 4141809

Or drop into see them http://centre33.org.uk/help/where-you-can-find-us/

The Kite Trust charity for free confidential youth support for up to 25 year olds

DHIVerse is a sexual health charity for all ages, with support groups for different LGBTQ+ people

Diamonds is a transgender support and social group

The Encompass Network is a LGBTQ+ network who promotes events and other support services

Cambridge University Students Union has an LGBTQ+ support group

As does the Cambridge University Graduate's Union

Cambridge University Staff LGBT+ Network

ARU LGBT+ student society

Anglia Ruskin Staff LGBT+ Network

Cambridge LGBTQ+ Meetup – lots of different groups organise meetings within the LGBTQ+ community

Sister Act – for women who like women. Embracing all under that banner, including bisexual, lesbian, cis, trans and non-binary people.

Queer Women in Cambridge - a community platform for LBTQ women and non-binary people in and around Cambridge, UK.

QTI Coalition of Colour - a network for self-identified QTI (queer, trans, intersex) people of colour in Cambridge

Cambridge LGBT Mature - a weekly drop in group for LGBT people over the age of 50 looking for company and support.

Open Table – two monthly events, safe sacred space for Christian LGBT+ people and allies.

There are independent Hate Crime Support Centres at these locations

John said he wants young people to not underestimate their parent’s love for them, as they were able to surprise Alex a few times with their support. 

“Could I have done anything differently? It’s not an easy question to answer. As young people exert their independence it’s hard to keep track and understand that. I feel proud of all my children.

“Nowadays we're struggling to work out what normal is, I know everyone is. One of the certain things is that nothing is normal.”

"It doesn't have to be like this"
Pip Gardner, CEO for Cambridgeshire's dedicated LGBTQ+ youth charity the Kite Trust said: "We’ve been seeing a child and adolescent mental health crisis emerging as services are cut by the government. Need has also risen in the LGBTQ+ community, particularly the trans community.

“It doesn’t have to be like this. There are services to ensure these statistics get better, but they need to be in a financial place to improve prevention, not wait for the crisis.

"We need more funding for mental health and trans health care. Getting those waiting times for gender clinics down is a huge factor in trans mental health.”


https://www.pinknews.co.uk/2021/01/26/cambridgeshire-dad-trans-child-mental-health-suicide-gender-dysphoria/

https://www.cambridge-news.co.uk/news/local-news/cambs-dad-opens-up-painful-19634558

https://uk.news.yahoo.com/heartbroken-dad-opens-devastating-reality-184459390.html

https://premierleague-news.com/uk-news-cambs-dad-opens-up-about-the-painful-reality-of-losing-a-trans-child-to-suicide-last-minute-news/41848/

https://sanand.altervista.org/regno-unito-un-padre-e-il-suicidio-del-figlio-trans/
