Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-08-20T17:56:19+01:00

====== Burcu (Konya - 19 Jun 2020) ======
Created Thursday 20 August 2020
@suicide






Burcu
22
2020_06_19_Burcu.jpg
https://transkimliklervardir.wordpress.com/2020/06/21/22-yasindaki-gencecik-bir-cana-degilkokusmus-transfobinize-veda-etmek-isterdik/
19 Jun 2020
Konya
Konya
Turkey
suicide


Burcu was only 22 years old (1998), committed suicide in the prime of her life and passed away on June 19. She was studying English at Istanbul University. She had a very conservative family, and with the COVID-19 outbreak, she had to return to Konya with her family. We know that she did not like living in Konya and had problems with her family on the basis of her sexual identity, from her previous posts with her friends.Burcu was not supported by her family and was subjected to transphobic violence from her family. (Psychological)

According to different researches; The suicide rate of trans people who are not accepted by their family based on blood ties is around 30-40%. Even if everyone else is excluded, we can say that this rate drops to 5% when families support trans children in line with their statements. These rates can also be much higher because in most suicide cases, it is not recorded whether the people are trans or not.

While family support is very important in trans suicides, a qualified counseling service to protect trans people from bullying in schools is also vital, and the school should be physically inclusive and the content of the education offered.

Sign; In her post 9 days before she committed suicide; She shared a foreign-sourced suicide hotline, drawing attention to the fact that one person attempts suicide every 40 seconds. In the continuation of the sharing with her own expression; 

" Unfortunately, there is no such line in Turkey"??

The 182 Light of Hope Line, which was established in 1995 to prevent suicide cases within the Bakirköy Mental and Neurological Diseases Hospital, was closed in 2007. Currently, there is no such suicide hotline within the Ministry of Health in the whole country. Moreover, considering the difficulty of the extraordinary living conditions created by a pandemic like COVID-19, this is a huge deficiency. Let's say the Ministry of Health has created such a line, and of course, how trans-inclusive that line will be is a fundamental problem! Because, the discrimination that trans people experience in hospitals still stands before us as a concrete reality.

Since May 2019, Burcu has been a member of the T-Talk WhatsApp Group, which includes 52 trans people. She is also in this group to feel that she is not alone like our other trans friends, whether she is seen wrong or not; She was here to heal a little bit the wounds caused by the transphobic violence of the family, society and the state, and to cheer up a little bit. We had complained about depression and anxiety on different dates and referred to the trans therapy group and the LGBTI + therapist network. Despite the suggestions of her friends from the group, we are experiencing the shock and sadness of losing him. Sometimes in an eye contact, sometimes in a smile, sometimes in a sentence, sometimes in the middle of the gull and in a lot of trouble, we say goodbye to this life that we share, talk but silently slipping from our hands.

We say goodbye to burcu

"You came to the Trans Therapy Group once. I was gone that day, we shook hands at the end of the meeting. Then I read the message from WhatsAp that started with" Good morning, life sister "." Geberik "was the nick in the group. . When my nick was pregnant, yes, it was the years when I got out of depression and got into someone. Geberik is the name of a song in Nazan Öncel's Sokak Kizi Album. My nickname came from this song. It was the password of my melancholic soul, my Geberik. Now I'm asking what brought us together in the same nick, both to myself and you? If I could hug you, I would also hear the heartbeat of myself years ago. Then the moment comes to mind when I realize that the mail you sent before you committed suicide was yours after the death news. How could I not wake up from that mail, I can not understand how she has traces of a suicide, I scowl at myself. I say maybe if I found your number, I would write to you. Maybe you would reply to me. Maybe I would understand that you were in a very bad situation and I would not let you go on the phone somehow. Maybe. Maybe .. I'm sorry. Forgive me for not reaching you. But you wrote on Twitter? There is no suicide hotline in Turkey. Maybe if there were a trans-inclusive, Trans Lifeline, you would call and be with us now. I will do my best to create a Trans Life Line. I will mobilize the Transist, which I have organized, for this purpose. Let the road be full of light, Burcu. Wishing you to find peace where you are going and to embrace tightly one day. (Life) Maybe I would understand that you were in a very bad situation and I would not let you go on the phone somehow. Maybe. Maybe .. I'm sorry. Forgive me for not reaching you. But you wrote on Twitter? There is no suicide hotline in Turkey. Maybe if there were a trans-inclusive, Trans Lifeline, you would call and be with us now. I will do my best to create a Trans Life Line. I will mobilize the Transist, which I have organized, for this purpose. Let the road be full of light, Burcu. Wishing you to find peace where you are going and to embrace tightly one day. (Life) Maybe I would understand that you were in a very bad situation and I would not let you go on the phone somehow. Maybe. Maybe .. I'm sorry. Forgive me for not reaching you. But you wrote on Twitter? There is no suicide hotline in Turkey. Maybe if there were a trans-inclusive, Trans Lifeline, you would call and be with us now. I will do my best to create a Trans Life Line. I will mobilize the Transist, which I have organized, for this purpose. Let the road be full of light, Burcu. Wishing you to find peace where you are going and to embrace tightly one day. (Life) If there was a Trans Lifeline, you would call and you would be among us now. I will do my best to create a Trans Life Line. I will mobilize the Transist, which I have organized, for this purpose. Let the road be full of light, Burcu. Wishing you to find peace where you are going and to embrace tightly one day. (Life) If there was a Trans Lifeline, you would call and you would be among us now. I will do my best to create a Trans Life Line. I will mobilize the Transist, which I have organized, for this purpose. Let the road be full of light, Burcu. Wishing you to find peace where you are going and to embrace tightly one day. (Life)

“Burcu was one of the few special people you can meet and meet in life. People have always given them rainbows on rainy days. Now we have lost a color of the rainbow. What we have lived, lived, and lived deserves to be shared; And one day they become light on a person's path to darkness. Memories are treasures, Burcu. You were a colorful light, now you will sleep in those lights. "Light is in your heart, and you will find your way home." (Nature Does Not Stop)

I only saw Burcu face to face once, she was very sweet, timid, innocent, kind ... Today she left us unfortunately, very painful, I hope she will find peace and be happy where she goes, goodbye Burcu ... (Ekin)

“Very difficult… There were moments when we laughed together at TTalk. I was only aware of a small part of your difficulties. It was just like yesterday when you shared that you were in a very isolated situation because you were not obeying the norms of men and women together… I tried to say that your feelings are normal and you do not have to comply with anything. I did not know, I could not foresee that it was a call for help… I wish I could help you get professional support…. My heart cannot afford to address in the past. You are a very beautiful young woman, Burcu, sleep in peace, the rainbow in your eternal sleep, you always watch us with your best smile in the body you wish. 

I will remember you with the name you prefer. I will honor you and many trans brothers like you by completing my process.

Trans lives are valuable. " (Melvin Selim Atay)

The world was such a bad place. Burcu would still be with us. We forgive Burcu, but I hope Burcu will not forgive this life. I hope life becomes a more loving place, free of hate, without anyone needing to forgive. This is my only wish. Burcu was always in this thought, we tried to support them separately, but our support was insufficient. If only it could be done enough. Thanks to the whole Trans community, especially Transist and T-Talk. Trans murders and trans suicides are political. Let's not abide by this order, let's leave a life full of love to all Trans and LGBTI + people. (Eren Durukan)

“I'm Anil. I'm writing for Burcu, the good-hearted girl we are in the Trans Therapy group. I didn't know him very much, I just came to the group, but if we look at it from another angle, I actually knew him well. How do you know, as all trans people, we have similar experiences… some trans people give up on the world, society, comments and what they call the most painful family. Probably, her heart is beautiful, unfortunately, Burcu also gave up against such problems. But I know that friends who remembered him well left her chosen family behind. No matter how much I regret that we see farewell one of the rare and unforgettable good people, I want to keep him alive by not forgetting it. Sleep comfortably Sign… "

"Sleep in the lights ... I hope we meet there with you" (Gökçe)

“VEDA to Burcu;

I became a bad thing even when I was writing the statement. Saying goodbye to someone with whom you have experienced the same things hurts a lot in one's heart. I got the news at noon and I felt as if something was missing, I didn't know very well, but in the end, our story was the same, losing someone with whom I fought the same war seemed a little hopeless. Everything could have been different if there was no such thing as homophobia, while there are so many people in the world who deserve to die, the news of our Burcu's death destroyed me quite a lot, whereas we were just fighting for what we deserve, not much. The result of fighting for what we deserve shouldn't have been this heavy. I am also upset, when I have no hope, I am trying to motivate people. I am trying to motivate people to do what they cannot do, or mine is like that. It was too early and I was a little offended by her death and she was very sad. We could do something, it could be done, it could be brought back to life. It did not work, we could not succeed, they could not fit it in this world. I hope her place in the next world will be very good ..

Thank you ”(Cloud)

“I have never had the opportunity to come face to face with Burcu, I would love to get to know him. But we were talking on social media. 

A month before the suicide, I texted him in the middle of the night and disturbed him. Bebj I thought you would understand, and I spilled my heart. I never forget our speech that day, I will not forget. Burcu did not like to share her picture. I never heard your voice either. That's why Burcu was like a beautifully written book for me, I only got to know her with her words and story. Maybe I haven't heard of you, maybe I haven't seen you, but I'm glad I got to know Burcu. " (Cemil) 

“A very young, very beautiful person with infinite potential was in a lot of pain. Oh my dear girl, my dear friend… I wish I had suffered. I wish I had the strength to give you a world where you can be happy. Being hostile to oneself is the most unfortunate event that can happen to a person. The love of others alone is not enough to save you. You have to learn to love yourself. I want to believe that trans sisters protect and guide him wherever she goes. I know we will meet again one day. May your soul find peace, my beautiful face, my sensitive heart. " ( Zeynep)

http://www.pembehayat.org/haberler/detay/2375/burcursquonun-ardindan

https://transkimliklervardir.wordpress.com/2020/06/21/22-yasindaki-gencecik-bir-cana-degilkokusmus-transfobinize-veda-etmek-isterdik/

https://twitter.com/TerryReintke/status/1275388196696842240
