Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-07-26T20:32:44+01:00

====== Gabriela (Soledad - 22 Jul 2020) ======
Created Sunday 26 July 2020
@suicide


Gabriela
29
22 Jul 2020
Soledad
Atlántico
Colombia
possible suicide


The light inside a house caught the attention of a neighborhood watchman in Soledad, on the Caribbean coast of Colombia, in the department of Atlántico. It was two hours before dawn on Wednesday, July 22 and the streets were deserted. Through the window, the man ran his gaze through the walls until his eyes suddenly collided with the lifeless body of Gabriela, a 29-year-old Venezuelan migrant trans woman. It is still not entirely clear what happened and there are cross versions. Some believe that he had decided to kill himself by using a sheet to hang himself. Others are suspicious, wonder if she was not induced to do so, and demand a judicial investigation in an area that documents discrimination and violence against LGBTI + people.

Gaby, as her friends told her, was a stylist by profession. Her neighbors describe her as a reserved and friendly person. Wilson Castañeda, director of Caribe Affirmativo –corporation that watches over the Human Rights of the community of Lesbian Gay Bisexual Transsexual and Intersex (LGBTI) - does not believe that it is a simple suicide. That is why he asked the judicial authorities to investigate what happened behind this case, since it is possible that he was induced to kill himself or that it was a homicide.

What is known of the events prior to Gabriela's death, according to Castañeda, is that she would have argued with a man wh


"It was suicide." This is how the Police described the death of a trans woman whose body was found at her home, early Wednesday morning, in a neighborhood of the municipality of Soledad, Atlántico. Few details came to light about what happened.

In fact, according to neighbors, the investigators "did not take long" at the crime scene, nor, in their opinion, did they gather enough evidence to corroborate or discard the initial hypothesis.

Gabriela, as the trans woman was known, was a 29-year-old Venezuelan migrant, resident in the country for 4 years and working as a hairdresser. "It was little talk" and "she didn't mess with anyone," according to her friends and neighbors.

The researchers, according to Gabriela's colleagues, "did not show great interest in knowing who he was, and much less in investigating why he had allegedly taken his life," but they assured that their friend "had had an argument with a person the day before his death and, after the fight had passed, he left his house quite neat and elegant. "

Gabriela's case, according to organizations that defend the rights of LGBT people, has elements that cannot be dismissed and, on the contrary, must be taken into account, because in criminal policy, suicides can be induced or motivated. That is why, they highlight, the investigation "is essential in this type of events", as well as the search for the appropriate evidentiary material to verify or rule out the prejudicial motive of a fact, so that the victims can obtain better access to justice in their cases.

That is why organizations and human rights defenders are concerned that the Gabriela case, along with 12 other homicides, have been perpetrated in the Colombian Caribbean against LGBT people during the pandemic in the framework of the mandatory isolation decreed by the national government. , a period in which the authorities are committed to protecting citizens in their environments.

But, regarding the previous figure, how has access to justice been for LGBT people in Colombia who are victims of violence by prejudice?

To answer this question, it is necessary to identify the progress and challenges of the legal system and how prepared human resources are to deal with this type of violent event in the country.

https://agenciapresentes.org/2020/07/24/12-personas-lgbt-asesinadas-en-el-caribe-de-colombia-en-cuarentena/

https://www.elheraldo.co/judicial/los-retos-pendientes-de-la-justicia-con-poblacion-lgbt-745406
