Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-09-30T09:00:49+01:00

====== Gokce Umay (Istanbul - 20 Sep 2020) ======
Created Wednesday 30 September 2020
@suicide



Gökçe Umay
2020_09_28_Gokce-Umay.jpg
https://twitter.com/mahipeykerr/status/1310531150826344448
20 Sep 2020
Istanbul
Turkey
suicide





IZMIR - + many LGBTI individuals living in Turkey, the society's marginalization and committed suicide unable to bear being killed due to prejudice or hate crimes. What do these young people live and are exposed to, as they are expressed in numbers in the annual reports of many non-governmental organizations, whose lives were stolen due to hatred, who ended their lives or were killed by the intensity of discrimination?

ONE MORE SUICIDE ...
Trans woman Gökçe Umay is also one of those who committed suicide, unable to withstand pressure. Gökçe Umay is originally from Karaman. Gökçe Umay, who was born to a conservative family, is getting married at an early age because of her effeminate actions, although she does not want to. Gökçe Umay, who opened up to her husband at the point where she could not tolerate the life she lived in, ends her relationship by saying that she can meet with her daughter as she wishes, provided that she leaves the place. Gökçe Umay, who came to Istanbul after leaving Karaman, is settling in Istanbul with the offers of her friends there.

When his family finds out that he has settled in Istanbul, the money in his bank account due to his debts to his father and the bonds is also confiscated through the bank. Gökçe Umay, trying to build a different life for herself despite financial difficulties, is also subjected to pressures such as "kill yourself" or "squeeze your head" by her family, according to the statements of her friends. In addition, according to the narratives, Gökçe, who has problems with his friend in the house where he is staying, is asked to leave the house and is insulted for locking the door of his room, his room is entered without his permission, he is exposed to threats for other people to stay in his room. When he opposed this, it was claimed that Gökçe Umay was asked for more money, and he was threatened with violence a few days before he committed suicide and he sleeps by putting his seat behind his door at night.

Unable to withstand all the pressures, Gökçe Umay, leaving a suicide letter behind, commits suicide with a rifle in front of his friend trying to convince him. Gökçe Umay's friends told Gazete Duvar what happened.

FAMILY, FAMILY, FINANCIAL TROUBLES ...
Zeliha Ermis, her friend who witnessed Umay's suicide, describes what happened at the time of suicide with the following words;

Because the attack comes. He heard the sound of the ambulance and went up to the balcony and looked. Then he took his rifle and locked himself in the room. Then he shot himself there. They took his body out of the house. Nothing like going to the hospital. "

Stating that Umay had serious problems with his family, wife and roommate, Ermis also underlined that he had many difficulties due to financial difficulties. Stating that everyone was responsible for his death, Ermis said;

We found a job in a way that supported each other, but as Gökçe could not find a job. He found a job as Fatih and started working as a courier. He shot himself without getting his first salary. He started work on September 3 and committed suicide before October 3. They left no motivation in him. The reason for this was the accusations of people while working there. Not being able to survive as a person apart from gender is the main reason people really end their life. We had a very painful situation. In no way, we could not create an opportunity for him to continue his life as a human being. It doesn't matter Ayse, Fatma, Ahmet, Mehmet, we took away all the motivations of a person. " They left no motivation in him. The reason for this was the accusations of people while working there. Not being able to survive as a person apart from gender is the main reason people really end their life. We had a very painful situation. In no way, we could not create an opportunity for him to continue his life as a human being. It doesn't matter Ayse, Fatma, Ahmet, Mehmet, we took away all the motivations of a person. " They left no motivation in him. The reason for this was the accusations of people while working there. Not being able to survive as a person apart from gender is the main reason people really end their life. We had a very painful situation. In no way, we could not create an opportunity for him to continue his life as a human being. It doesn't matter Ayse, Fatma, Ahmet, Mehmet, we took away all the motivations of a person. "

'WE ARE ALL GUILTY'
Another friend of Umay, who does not want to give his name, expresses his experiences with the following words;

"Mobing had to stay in that house where he lived because he had no money. He has a nightstand in his room, they even confiscate his nightstand. They throw their belongings on the floor and ask for extra money for everything. Most recently, he threatens to beat Gökçe. He comes there, I blow your head." This happens a few days before the suicide incident. He put a sofa behind the door and said he slept. The person he mentioned in his suicide note was his flatmate. I mean, as his friend, trans suicides are murder. Gökçe was a lively person. He was so eager to live ... Single They did not allow him to live without a place to sleep or a bedside table until he had no remedy. His family, his roommates, all. We couldn't help him, we are all guilty. "

Gökçe's Twitter account is https://twitter.com/gokceumayarma. The account is now protected and it looks like her tweets have been deleted.

https://www.gazeteduvar.com.tr/trans-kadin-gokcenin-arkadaslari-trans-intiharlari-cinayettir-haber-1500306

https://twitter.com/mahipeykerr/status/1310531150826344448

https://twitter.com/opias10/status/1309113855214223362
