Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2020-07-25T10:18:30+01:00

====== Asha Andriani (Turin - 14 Feb 1991) ======
Created Saturday 25 July 2020
@violence



Asha Andriani
14 Feb 1991
Turin
Italy
shot
NOT ON TDOR LIST

Two sisters. Both trans. Both murdered.


Buoncostume considers him a quiet guy, never involved in shady laps. Sometimes he calls him for the too skimpy clothes with which he attracts customers: Ascia wears only a faux fur with a tiger print on her bra and briefs.

Thursday, February 14, 1991, shortly after one o'clock, Ascia's lifeless body was found on the asphalt, in a lake of blood, at the end of Via Sangano, in the open space where he usually met customers. Via Sangano is very close to the car showroom in via Cialdini, it is blind, uncrowded and poorly lit, and opens in via Trana, near Piazza Bernini and Corso Francia.

The agents of the Squadra Mobile, directed by Dr. Aldo Faraoni, arrive on the spot called by a phone call to 113: someone reported that a woman's body was thrown from the street by a running car.

They identify Ax who, as usual, wears only his underwear under the fur and presents, under his ear, the small hole of the only bullet that killed him.

The first indications come from the colleagues of Ascia, including his brother Cosimo who calls himself Valentina and who four years later will in turn be the victim of a murderer. Ascia got into a blue Renault R5 with two young men on board and, next to his body, there are the fragments of a blue R5 that hit two parked cars.

At the same time, from a bar in via Principi d'Acaja, a young man telephones 113 to report that three unknown young men, after having beaten him, robbed him of the blue R5, around midnight, in Piazza Statuto.

Two hours after the discovery of the corpse of Ascia, a blue R5 is on fire in the Corso Francia counter. The firefighters intervene and, on the back seat, they find a 22 gauge Luger for sport shooting.

Everything happened within a kilometer.


That pair of brothers and sisters who arrived from Puglia and ended badly

They arrived in Turin for the first time in 1980. Then they were still called Antonio and Cosimo Andriani but inside they already felt they were Asha and Valentina. They had left Molfetta for a vacation. "He liked the city and they had decided to stay," explained his sister Agnese sixteen years ago. In Puglia they had left their parents and prejudices. "In the family, however, we had accepted their choice - said Agnese who lived with her husband in Turin - We were ten brothers: five boys and five girls but only at the registry office. In fact, he soon realized that I had six sisters. ' Those two sisters imprisoned in male bodies had made a fortune. They had both bought the house, accumulated a fortune (Asha had deposited 500 million in the current account, Valentina even 800). And above all they had changed: long, very black hair, bilious eyes, prosperous breasts. Impossible to recognize in them the two brothers who left Molfetta. All of them were sold on the pavement: one on one side of Corso Ferrucci, the other on the other. On the evening of February 14, 1991, the street where Asha used to appear covered only by a net under her fur became the trap in which her killers closed her. He got into a blue Renault that evening Asha. He knew Corrado Giordano, the boy who led her. He also trusted Paolo Scialuga who sat behind him in silence and who shortly afterwards would have fired a shot in the back of the neck with a Luger brought from Switzerland and tried just before against the trees of Villastellone. His body was unloaded in front of the gate of a garage in via Sangano. The two "good" boys tried to burn the car, simulated the theft of the car then confessed. «I shot myself, I had Corrado's gun next to him. She was sitting in front. I felt the unstoppable urge to shoot him. I don't know why ... »admitted Paolo Scialuga who got away with a six-year sentence. Valentina cried when she heard of Asha's death. "The road is scary, I'm afraid of ending up the same way," she said through tears. He did not know that fate had something even more terrible in store for her. That it was not one night's stranger who killed her, but the man he introduced as her boyfriend. Umberto Prinzi had met him in a nightclub. Before there had been other "boyfriends": timidoni who fell in love with her and taught her to fill checks and open an account at the counter. And that in court they remembered: "She put the money in a pouffe in bulk." But like Asha every month Valentina also sent 300 thousand lire to Molfetta. "To help our parents pay the rent," said Agnese. Valentina had disappeared in May '95 but the official report of her disappearance bears the date of June 5. At midday on May 1, he had last called his sister Agnese for the last time. Then silence. Five phone calls had left from his cell phone: Umberto Prinzi had made them, who had also engaged Valentina's furs at Monte dei Pegni. On September 4, the Clio di Valentina was found in Piazza Savoia and in November ' 96 the Squadra Mobile had finally arrested Umberto Prinzi. Against him there was also the testimony of a first cousin, Marai Ferrari, who told the agents that Umberto had confided the murder to her: "He quarreled with her, he took her by the neck. He didn't want to kill her but he strangled her. He buried the body and took the jewels. " But later he had taken everything back. Thus began the long trial and the prosecutor Enrica Gabetta after a debate full of twists and despite not having ever found Valentina's corpse had managed to obtain the sentence of the murderer at twenty-four years, then reduced to twenty-two. The story ended like this: with useless excavations in the Viù valley and the feeling that perhaps Valentina would never find anything again.

A sad story. Or a very bad story, it depends on the point of view. He remembered the transmission " criminal love " on Wednesday evening on Rai Tre .

Usual horrendous vicissitude of violence, like the many of these days and the countless ones still hidden in the archives of the cold houses , occasionally fished by the mass media. Usual affair if it were not that the two victims came from Molfetta.

Late in the 70s, Antonio and Cosimo Andriani little more than teenagers left Molfetta for Turin. But in Turin Antonio and Cosimo become Asha and Valentina, they make life and money, a lot of money, and in Molfetta they never return.

On TV a host of lawyers and journalists explain who Asha and Valentina were, how they lived, what they wanted from life. On TV even a single sister, still heartbroken by the pain of the loss.

But what happened in Turin? Asha dies of an accidental shot, so he said to himself, shot by a client. And this is already a bad and strange story. Valentina is murdered, a few years later, by the man who could call herself her partner, in a quarrel of the usual, but perhaps more violent. Then, wrapped in a plastic clothes case, she is thrown down a cliff and forgotten there for more than ten years. His executioner, arrested and tried even without having found the body, will deny until the remains are found in 2007.

A sad story, a great bad story.

https://mole24.it/2016/02/05/lomicidio-della-notte-di-san-valentino-torino-14-febbraio-1991/

https://ricerca.repubblica.it/repubblica/archivio/repubblica/2007/01/27/quella-coppia-di-fratelli-sorelle-arrivate-dalla-puglia.html

https://www.molfettalive.it/news/attualita/39406/amori-criminali-su-rai3-le-storie-di-asha-e-valentina
