Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-01-29T21:52:10+00:00

====== Gisberta Salce Junior (22 Feb 2006) ======
Created Friday 29 January 2021
@violence @update


Gisberta Salce Junior
22 Feb 2006


https://gay.blog.br/trans/assassinato-da-brasileira-gisberta-fez-portugal-criar-leis-para-proteger-transexuais/


Gisberta Salce Junior
22 Feb 2006

'Pão de Açúcar' narrates the death of a trans Brazilian woman from the point of view of her executioner
In the first of his several meetings in the basement of an unfinished building, the boy Rafael shoots Gi a series of offenses. I thought she wanted to steal your bicycle.

"It's mine, O old bitch! Don't touch it, I will break your face." She makes him sit and calmly responds. "I don't care, boy, they've already insulted me a lot."

From there, the two create an intimate relationship, never disarmed by a certain tension. Gi, a transsexual woman in her 40s, will be a vital person to bring out the sensitivity of Rafael, the narrator of the story. And she will also be murdered by him, alongside other colleagues, over days of brutal beatings.

The novel "Pão de Açúcar" is based on a true story that scandalized Portugal 14 years ago, when 14 teenagers killed a Brazilian woman in a transphobic crime in the city of Porto. It became known in the country as "the Gisberta case", as shown by journalistic clippings gathered at the end of the book, and it is attributed to significant changes in Portuguese legislation to protect the trans community.

"What exactly happened in the partially abandoned garage remains far from clear," reported the newspaper Público in February 2006. "The fact that she was a transvestite, a drug addict and had poor health made her an easy target. Even so, a [ of teenagers] also said to be your friend. "

That was the point of view that Afonso Reis Cabral decided to adopt to guide his novel, consecrated with the José Saramago award two years ago and now launched in Brazil.

A challenging choice, but one that seemed inevitable to the author. "Because there is a terrible perspective on reality. Being in the shoes of someone who attacks is something that bothers the reader, which puts him in a place of discomfort. And literature for me is that place."

"I realized that in the real case there were absences that could be filled by fiction," says the 30-year-old Portuguese, stressing that his work does not report, but reinvents reality. "One of them is the emptiness that goes from the first boys discover and help Gisberta until when those same boys participate in the aggressions that end up killing her. There is a psychological, inner, especially literary journey here."

In Cabral's narrative, Rafael and two other boarding school colleagues are both impelled and repelled by the presence of Gisberta over weeks. The troubled discovery of identity and sex by teenagers is confronted by a character who calls into question their bronchial concepts of masculinity.

In a moment of climax, Gi surprises the protagonist when he receives him assembled the way he used to perform in performances, with red hair and a sequin dress "that shone in the light of the flames".

"It was a woman and walked towards me", writes the narrator. "In that state, she was not the person I had helped or the person I had insulted - she was someone entirely dedicated to me and showing acceptance of me with a purity that did not match that shit." The scene goes from astonishment to desire, to fright, to aggressiveness.

Works like "Pão de Açúcar", which seek to unravel the personality and motivations of aggressors, are sometimes accused of sympathizing with their characters or justifying what is hideous - in this case, transphobia.

"I find a childish reaction to literature, something more and more in vogue," says the author. "It is to subordinate the reader and think that he cannot define what he is reading. That he has to have an initial disclaimer saying 'this is bad', as if the reader did not know." According to him, those who read "will know for sure that the human condition is much more complex than a Manichaean view of reality".

Cabral, moreover, avoids the trap of portraying Gisberta as a mere object, a propellant of other people's feelings. Several chapters are dedicated to romance the past life of women, from childhood in São Paulo, desirous of the body of the two sisters, on arrival in Porto, when she was envied by her pension colleagues.

These are sensitive passages that raise the dimension of the tragedy told in parallel, narrated by a protagonist who is overcome with regret - and nostalgia - atrocious.

"I thought it was sad for Gi to end up like this", he writes, remembering the woman's last moments, "between people like Fábio, Leandro and Grilo, for whom her life had been little more than the contrast between her breasts and the penis ". "Pão de Açúcar", on the other hand, is clear that Gisberta was much more than that.

http://www.diariodecuiaba.com.br/ilustrado/pao-de-acucar-narra-morte-de-brasileira-trans-do-ponto-de-vista-de-seu-algoz/563947


'Pão de Açúcar' narrates the death of a trans Brazilian woman from the point of view of her executioner
In the first of his several meetings in the basement of an unfinished building, the boy Rafael shoots Gi a series of offenses. I thought she wanted to steal your bicycle.

“It's mine, O old bitch! Don't touch it, I'll break your face. ”She makes him sit and calmly responds. "I don't care, boy, they've already insulted me a lot."

From there, the two create an intimate relationship, never disarmed by a certain tension. Gi, a transsexual woman in her 40s, will be a vital person to bring out the sensitivity of Rafael, the narrator of the story. And she will also be murdered by him, alongside other colleagues, over days of brutal beatings.

friend shows photo of gisberta, in the dark, while holding a cigarette
Friends display photo of Gisberta Salce during vigil in protest for his death in the city of Porto, Portugal - Adriano Miranda / Público
The novel “Pão de Açúcar” is based on a true story that scandalized Portugal 14 years ago, when 14 teenagers killed a Brazilian woman in a transphobic crime in the city of Porto . It became known in the country as “the Gisberta case” , as shown by journalistic clippings gathered at the end of the book, and it is attributed to significant changes in Portuguese legislation to protect the trans community.

“What exactly happened in the partially abandoned garage remains far from being clarified,” reported the newspaper Público in February 2006. “The fact that I was a transvestite, a drug addict and had poor health made me an easy target. Even so, one [of the teenagers] said he was also his friend. "

That was the point of view that Afonso Reis Cabral decided to adopt to guide his novel, consecrated with the José Saramago award two years ago and now launched in Brazil .

A challenging choice, but one that seemed inevitable to the author. “Because there is a terrible perspective on reality. Being in the shoes of those who attack is something that bothers the reader, which puts him in a place of discomfort. And literature for me is that place. "

"I realized that in the real case there were absences that could be filled by fiction," says the 30-year-old Portuguese, stressing that his work does not report, but reinvents reality. “One of them is the emptiness that goes from the first boys discover and help Gisberta until those same boys participate in the aggressions that end up killing her. There is a psychological, inner journey here, above all a literary one. "

Afonso Reis Cabral
Portuguese writer Afonso Reis Cabral, author of "Pão de Açúcar", winner of the José Saramago award - Marta D'Orey / Disclosure
In Cabral's narrative, Rafael and two other boarding school colleagues are both impelled and repelled by the presence of Gisberta over weeks. The troubled discovery of identity and sex by teenagers is confronted by a character who calls into question their bronchial concepts of masculinity.

In a moment of climax, Gi surprises the protagonist when he receives him assembled the way he used to perform in performances, with red hair and a sequin dress "that shone in the light of the flames".

“She was a woman and she walked towards me,” writes the narrator. “In that state, she was not the person I had helped or the person I had insulted - she was someone entirely dedicated to me and showing acceptance with a purity that it didn't match that shit. ”The scene goes from astonishment to desire, to fright, to aggressiveness.

Works like “Pão de Açúcar”, which seek to unravel the personality and motivations of aggressors, are sometimes accused of sympathizing with their characters or of justifying what is hideous - in this case, transphobia .

Photo illustration shows dolls under the rainbow, symbol of the LGBTI movement in the world Karime Xavier / Folhapress

Read more
“I think it's a childish reaction to literature, something that is increasingly in vogue,” says the author. "It is to subordinate the reader and think that he cannot define what he is reading. That there must be an initial disclaimer saying 'this is bad', as if the reader did not know." According to him, those who read "will know for sure that the human condition is much more complex than a Manichean view of reality".

Cabral, moreover, avoids the trap of portraying Gisberta as a mere object, a propellant of other people's feelings. Several chapters are dedicated to romance the past life of women, from childhood in São Paulo, desirous of the body of the two sisters, on arrival in Porto, when she was envied by her pension colleagues.

They are sensitive passages that raise the dimension of the tragedy told in parallel, narrated by a protagonist taken by repentance - and longing - atrocious.

“I thought it was sad for Gi to end up like this”, he writes, remembering the woman's last moments, “between people like Fábio, Leandro and Grilo, for whom her life had been little more than the contrast between the breasts and the penis ”. “Pão de Açúcar”, on the other hand, is clear that Gisberta was much more than that.

Sugar Loaf
Price R $ 44.90 (256 pages;) R $ 34.90 (ebook)
Author Afonso Reis Cabral
Publisher HarperCollins


https://web.archive.org/web/20210129214554/https://www1.folha.uol.com.br/ilustrada/2021/01/pao-de-acucar-narra-morte-de-brasileira-trans-do-ponto-de-vista-de-seu-algoz.shtml

