Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-02-14T08:23:13+00:00

====== Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arevalo (Sincelejo - 6 Feb 2021) ======
Created Sunday 14 February 2021
@violence




Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo
35
2021_02_06_Angie-Priscila-Jeaniot-Arevalo.jpg
https://www.elheraldo.co/sucre/rechazan-crimen-de-joven-trans-en-sincelejo-794322
https://www.aldia.co/mundo-serio/piden-la-fiscalia-esclarecer-crimen-de-chica-trans-en-sincelejo-53412
6 Feb 2021
El Porvenir neighborhood
Sincelejo
Sucre
Colombia
stabbed



Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo was stabbed in Sincelejo, Sucre (Colombia) on 6 Feb 2021. Her alleged killer was a minor aged under 14.

She was 35.

https://www.infobae.com/america/colombia/2021/02/13/colombia-ya-registra-cinco-asesinatos-de-mujeres-trans-en-2021-el-caso-mas-reciente-se-registro-en-calarca-quindio/

https://www.elheraldo.co/sucre/rechazan-crimen-de-joven-trans-en-sincelejo-794322

https://www.diariodelnorte.net/noticias/caribe/rechazan-asesinato-de-chica-trans-en-sincelejo/

https://tubarco.news/tubarco-noticias-caribe/angie-priscila-miembro-de-la-comunidad-lgtbi-fue-asesinada-de-una-punalada-en-sincelejo/

https://www.elheraldo.co/sucre/muere-chica-trans-al-ser-apunalada-en-sincelejo-793177




The second case that was registered was in Sincelejo. According to information from the Caribbean Affirmative organization, Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo was a trans woman with great visibility in the region and was attacked with a knife to the thorax, which affected one of her lungs. The Trans Community Network confirmed that this event occurred in the El Porvenir neighborhood, on Saturday morning.

El Tiempo reported that Angie was a trans woman with great social recognition, for this reason she had received threats from paramilitary groups on repeated occasions.

Caribe Affirmativo called on the Prosecutor's Office to "carry out an exhaustive evaluation of the facts, since there is the possibility of a femicide, motivated by the gender identity of the victim," according to the newspaper.


https://www.infobae.com/america/colombia/2021/02/13/colombia-ya-registra-cinco-asesinatos-de-mujeres-trans-en-2021-el-caso-mas-reciente-se-registro-en-calarca-quindio/


The crime of the young trans Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo that occurred over the weekend in the city of Sincelejo has caused various reactions. One of these was that of the Secretary for Women in Sucre, Verena Revollo.

She, on behalf of the Departmental Government, categorically rejected this bloody act.

"We express our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones, and we ratify the commitment to ensure respect for the Human Rights of all Sucreños , because these must be respected regardless of the sexual orientation of each person," Revollo noted.

Read also ...
Likewise, this agency called on all Sucreños to tolerance and to denounce any act of gender violence through the lines 320 587 44 22 and 155 and 123.

Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo died after receiving a stab wound that affected one of her lungs. A minor under 14 years of age was the author of the attack that took place in the middle of a family quarrel in the El Porvenir neighborhood, in Sincelejo , where she lived.

The Caribbean Affirmative Corporation has asked the Prosecutor's Office to speed up the investigation and analyze whether it has to do with a femicide.



Angie Priscila, a member of the LGTBI community, was killed by a stab in Sincelejo
February 8, 2021
Angie Priscilla
Anfgie Priscila, young woman murdered in Sincelejo.
Sincelejo News.
Caribe Affirmativo, a group that defends the rights of the LGTBI community, assures that the young woman had received threats.
As Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo, a trans woman was identified who was stabbed to death in the capital of Sucre.

A minor allegedly stabbed her chest, which affected her lung and caused her death hours after the attack.

Apparently, this happened during a quarrel over a dispute over property among his relatives.

The victim was 35 years old and his real name was Adán Bertel Garizábalo, 35 years old.


Angie Priscila, young woman murdered in Sincelejo.
This crime, which is rejected by the entire community, occurred last Saturday, February 6 at around 11 in the morning in the El Porvenir neighborhood of Sincelejo.

Had you received threats?
According to the statement from Caribe Affirmativo, Angie Priscila "had a high level of visibility that was counteracted by threats from paramilitary groups, who threatened her in her hegemonic exercise to neutralize her gender identity and expression."

“The violence increased to the point of generating the forced displacement of Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo because of her gender identity, on pain of being murdered. Despite suffering several displacements, he was able to return to his territory ”, says the letter.

They ask for justice
Caribe Affirmativo has raised its voice in protest so that this event does not go unpunished.

“We join the Sucre Diversa organization's request for speed to the Office of the Attorney General of the Nation and support from the Ombudsman's Office, especially, taking into account all the data uploaded. Likewise, we join the request for the State and other authorities to promote and guarantee actions for a dignified life for trans people in the department, ”he says.

“Todo lo anterior, exige un compromiso por parte de la Gobernación de Sucre y la Alcaldía de Sincelejo para establecer verdaderas acciones afirmativas para mitigar la oleada de violencia y garantizar seguridad a las personas LGBT en estos territorios. Nos solidarizamos con los familiares, activistas y amigos y compartimos su indignación ante esos actos, ofreciendo el acompañamiento necesario para que no haya impunidad en este caso y exigir justicia necesaria”, sentencia.

Vea: Tercera vez y un juez de Cartagena se negó a casar a una pareja de mujeres y además, las demandó
Más víctimas
Vale anotar, que en lo que va corrido del 2021 se han registrado 5 casos de muertes de personas LGTBI, y 2 de ellos han ocurrido en la ciudad de Sincelejo:

“En este mismo municipio a inicios del mes de enero ocurrió el caso de Kay Isabel Thomson, en circunstancias difusas que exigen un esclarecimiento oportuno. No puede pasarse por alto que para el 2020 el Observatorio de DD. HH de Caribe Afirmativo registró en el Caribe Colombiano incluyendo al Urabá Antiqueño 34 casos de muertes violentas, de las 18 fueron de mujeres LBT”, dice el comunicado.

They reject the murder of a trans girl in Sincelejo
The departmental administration, through the Secretariat for Women and Gender Equity, rejected the murder of the 35-year-old trans girl Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo, which was registered in the municipality of Sincelejo.

"We express our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones, and we ratify the commitment to ensure respect for the human rights of all Sucreños, because these must be respected regardless of the sexual orientation of each person," said Verena Revollo Departmental Secretary for Women and Gender Equity.

It should be remembered that last Saturday, February 6, 2020, Angie Priscila was attacked with a knife at the height of the thorax, in the El Porvenir neighborhood of Sincelejo.

Apparently, the incident occurred during a quarrel resulting from a dispute over property among his relatives.




They reject the murder of a trans girl in Sincelejo
The departmental administration, through the Secretariat for Women and Gender Equity, rejected the murder of the 35-year-old trans girl Angie Priscila Jeaniot Arévalo, which was registered in the municipality of Sincelejo.

"We express our deepest condolences to his family and loved ones, and we ratify the commitment to ensure respect for the human rights of all Sucreños, because these must be respected regardless of the sexual orientation of each person," said Verena Revollo Departmental Secretary for Women and Gender Equity.

It should be remembered that last Saturday, February 6, 2020, Angie Priscila was attacked with a knife at the height of the thorax, in the El Porvenir neighborhood of Sincelejo.

Apparently, the incident occurred during a quarrel resulting from a dispute over property among his relatives.





https://www.elheraldo.co/sucre/rechazan-crimen-de-joven-trans-en-sincelejo-794322

https://www.diariodelnorte.net/noticias/caribe/rechazan-asesinato-de-chica-trans-en-sincelejo/

https://tubarco.news/tubarco-noticias-caribe/angie-priscila-miembro-de-la-comunidad-lgtbi-fue-asesinada-de-una-punalada-en-sincelejo/

https://www.elheraldo.co/sucre/muere-chica-trans-al-ser-apunalada-en-sincelejo-793177
