Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-07-06T07:56:36+01:00

====== Crismilly Perola (Recife - 5 Jul 2021) ======
Created Tuesday 06 July 2021
@violence





Crismilly Pérola ("Piu Piu", "Bombom")
37
2021_07_05_Crismilly-Perola-Bombom.jpg
https://g1.globo.com/pe/pernambuco/noticia/2021/07/05/mulher-trans-e-assassinada-com-tiro-no-recife-e-familia-acredita-em-crime-motivado-por-transfobia.ghtml
5 Jul 2021
Várzea [alongside Capibaribe River]
Recife
Pernambuco
beaten and shot


Trans woman is gunned down in Recife and family believes in crime motivated by transphobia
The 37-year-old hairdresser used the social name of Crismilly Pearl and was also known as Bombom or Piu-piu. This case occurred on Monday (5), in Várzea.
By G1 PE

05/07/2021 16:00 Updated 11 hours ago

Crismilly Pérola was also known as Bombom or Piu-piu — Photo: Reproduction/WhatsApp
1 of 1 Crismilly Pérola was also known as Bombom or Piu-piu — Photo: Reproduction/WhatsApp
Crismilly Pérola was also known as Bombom or Piu-piu — Photo: Reproduction/WhatsApp

A trans woman was shot dead this Monday (5), in the Beira Rio community, in Várzea, West Zone of Recife . The 37-year-old hairdresser used the social name of Crismilly Pearl and was also known as Bombom or Piu-piu. The family believes that the crime was motivated by transphobia, which occurs when there is prejudice against those who identify themselves as transgender.

This is the third serious case of violence against trans women in less than a month. On June 18, the body of Kalyndra Selva was found inside her house , at Ipsep, in the south of Recife. On the 24th of the Same Month, Roberta da Silva had 40% of her body burned by a teenager at the Center.

Investigations into Crismilly's case were initiated by the Department of Homicide and Personal Protection (DHPP).

According to criminal expert Diego Nunes, from the Specialized Group of Expertise in Homicide (GEPH), of the DHPP, the body was found on the banks of the Capibaribe River.

"The victim had a gunshot in the hand that transfixed and hit her neck. She was wearing denim shorts and shorts, there was no sign of sexual violence," he said.

According to the family, she had left home, where she lived with her family near the place, at night, saying that she would go to friends' houses.

The hairdresser's cousin, Jennnifer Matos, 25, said she had recently been a victim of transphobia and was hospitalized because she fractured one of her arms. The family believes that the motivation was the same.

"It was a month ago, in a fight in Várzea as well. They tried to make her life. And the reason for what we know was transphobia. there was always that. that the police investigate and identify the culprits. She was a very dear person," he said.

other cases
At the end of last month, the transsexual woman was burned alive while sleeping near the Santa Rita pier, in the center of Recife. Roberta Nascimento, 32, had more than 40% of her body burned and had to amputate both arms. She is admitted to the Hospital of the Restoration. The health condition is considered serious.

Also in June, a trans woman was found dead inside her house, at Ipsep, in the South Zone of Recife. Her partner is the main suspect in committing the crime.

Statistics
According to the Social Defense Secretariat (SDS), in May 2021, Pernambuco registered a 16.2% drop in the number of homicides, compared to the same period in 2020.

In the accumulated from January to the fifth month of this year, the state had a reduction of 14.3% in the amount of crimes against life.

Also according to the state, in May 2021, 294 homicides were registered. In the same month of 2020, there were 351 murders.

Between January and May of this year, SDS registered 1,429 occurrences, against 1,667 in the same period of the previous year.



Another transvestite is murdered and the movement pressures the state government for public policies
Reports
Another transvestite is murdered and the movement pressures the state government for public policies
Raisa Ebrahim, on 05/07/2021, 17:41.
Act against transphobia in Recife
Credit: Yane Mendes
The week after the protest against transfemicide and transphobia , which marked the LGBTQIA+ Pride Day in Pernambuco, the State registers another possible case of murder against a transvestite. The victim was Crismilly Pérola Bombom, known as Piu Piu, 37 years old, black woman, from Várzea, west of Recife, where she was well known. 

She was found dead, on a public road, with at least one shot and signs of a beating, in the Beira Rio community, near the Caxangá bridge. Crismilly had already been a victim of violence for approximately a month, when she needed to be rescued.

The Civil Police of Pernambuco informed that it is investigating the murder. A police inquiry was launched to investigate the case, under the command of the Department of Homicide and Protection of Persons (DHPP), and to identify the author and motivation of the crime.

In the country where most transgender people and transvestites are killed in the world, Pernambuco is the seventh most dangerous state for this population. Social movements are still mourning and fighting for the cases of Roberta Silva, a transvestite burned by a teenager and who had both arms amputated, and Kalyndra Nogueira da Hora, also a transvestite, recently murdered by asphyxiation by her own partner. 

Roberta's health condition, in fact, worsened this Monday (July 5th) in the afternoon. She was again intubated and admitted to the ICU at Hospital da Restauração.

For each case that gains repercussion in the press and social networks, there are dozens of others that remain silent. As a way to demand a public policy that goes beyond emergency assistance and public condolences, the social movement of transgender people and transvestites is pressuring Governor Paulo Câmara (PSB) to dialogue. The community has been building demands and proposals, but so far it has only been received by secretaries.

“Once again, a brutality against our bodies”, laments the state co-deputy for the Juntas (PSOL) Robeyoncé Lima, the first black transvestite lawyer in the North and Northeast. “These are not isolated cases, it is a need for an effective public policy for the entire population, because discrimination and prejudice are ingrained”, he protests. 

“Of course, emergency care is needed, but it is necessary to build long-term policies, dialoguing with the movement. We don't want policies only when violence comes, when we are already at the hospital door. What preventive character is the State taking?”, provokes Robeyoncé. 

One of the six bills approved by the Boards on the rights of the LGBTQIA+ population in Pernambuco determines that health establishments, whether public or private, have, in the forms, the option for the patient to self-identify their gender and sexual orientation (Law 17,292). Initiatives of this type are important because without data, public policies cannot be built. 

In response to Marco Zero's request , the Government of Pernambuco issued an official note about this crime, but did not mention the possibility of a meeting between Governor Paulo Câmara (PSB) and representatives of the trans and transvestite community:

The Government of Pernambuco, through the Secretariat for Social Development, Children and Youth (SDSCJ) has been working with the Recife City Hall to provide assistance and support to the family of victim Crismilly Perola.

Through the Recife City Hall's Reference Center for LGBT Citizenship, the family is being welcomed by a multidisciplinary team with a lawyer, social worker and psychologist, who are directly monitoring the case.

The Government of Pernambuco reinforces that it does not tolerate any act of LGBTphobic violence. In addition, it has been working incessantly in the prevention policy, with the secretariats and municipalities, to guarantee the security of the right to life for the LGBTQIA+ population. The LGBT Coordination reinforces that LGBTphobia is a crime provided for in Law 7716/1989.

To assess and monitor similar cases of violence in the state, the Committee for the Prevention and Confrontation of LGBTphobic Violence was created. The state secretariats of Women, Social Development, Child and Youth, Social Defense, Human Rights, Health and Education participate.



Transsexual hairdresser Crismilly Pérola Bombom, 37 years old, better known as “Piu Piu” in the region where she lives, was found dead around 9 am this Monday (5) at Rua das Orquídeas, in the Várzea neighborhood , West Zone of Recife. The case, classified as a homicide, is already under investigation by the Civil Police of Pernambuco, and takes place weeks after another transvestite was burned in the capital of Pernambuco. The family doesn't know details about Pearl's murder, only that she left for a party at 9 pm on this Sunday (4) and never returned home. ” We think it was homophobia, because Pérola was very dear, but there were many people who criticized her; when she passed by, they messed with her,” said the victim's cousin, Izabelli Soares, also a 30-year-old hairdresser.

https://planettransgender.com/trans-woman-crismilly-perola-murdered-in-brazil/

https://www.esquerdadiario.com.br/Travesti-e-assassinada-a-tiros-em-Recife-Crismilly-Perola-Presente

https://www.bnews.com.br/noticias/policia/313316,mulher-trans-e-morta-a-tiros-em-recife.html

https://www.agoranordeste.com.br/noticia/07/05/2021/mulher-trans-e-assassinada-com-tiro-no-recife-e-familia-acredita-em-crime-motivado-por-transfobia.html

https://g1.globo.com/pe/pernambuco/noticia/2021/07/05/mulher-trans-e-assassinada-com-tiro-no-recife-e-familia-acredita-em-crime-motivado-por-transfobia.ghtml

https://bcharts.com.br/t/mais-uma-trans-e-morta-em-recife-3-caso-de-transfobia-em-menos-de-1-mes/95643

https://marcozero.org/mais-uma-travesti-e-assassinada-e-movimento-pressiona-governo-estadual-por-politicas-publicas/

https://faroldenoticias.com.br/transexual-e-assassinada-na-zona-oeste-do-recife/

https://twitter.com/RobeyonceLima/status/1412049701289988097

https://twitter.com/Tdetravesti/status/1412102599956910082
