Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-09T20:51:14+01:00

====== Dominique Lucious (Springfield - 8 Apr 2021) ======
Created Friday 09 April 2021
@violence



Dominique Lucious
26
https://www.pghlesbian.com/2021/04/black-trans-woman-dominique-lucious-26-is-the-14th-victim-of-transphobic-homicide
8 Apr 2021
905 N. Main
Springfield
Missouri
USA
shot


On Thursday, April 8, 2021, a 26-year-old Black trans woman named Dominique Lucious was murdered in Springfield, Missouri. From KY3 television (deadnaming at original article);

[She] was fatally shot Thursday morning in the 900 block of North Main Avenue. Officers responded to heard gunshot fire just before 7 a.m. Police say the victim died after being shot in the chest. Later Thursday, officers responded to the 1000 block of East Commercial Street. Police were serving a warrant at a home believed to be connected to the investigation.
Police have made an arrest – Charles Nelson, 28, of Springfield. He has been booked into the Greene County Jail for second-degree murder, according to the Springfield Police Department.

Dominique Lucious was born in St. Louis, Missouri and most recently lived in Springfield, Missouri. She went to the St. Louis Job Corp Center. Dominique was described by friends as “fierce, glam, and hunny gorgeous!” Dominique’s social media profiles use the name “Dominique” but the Springfield Police insist on using her dead name, a very close variation. They insist this is correct and they do consistently refer to her using appropriate pronouns and gender identity. I’m using the name she used on her social media profiles.

Dominique is the fifteenth trans, nonbinary or gender nonconforming person reported killed in 2021. Fourteen of these neighbors have been BIPOC. She is the eleventh victim who identified as Black. Dominique is one of nine victims under the age of 26. In total, there have been FIFTEEN murders or suspicious deaths in the first 77 days of 2021, an average of one death every 6.5 days. So far. That we know of as many deaths go unreported or unacknowledged.  Note – in this summary, I include suspicious deaths that as you can read below are often later confirmed homicides.

There is no word yet on final arrangements.

Rest in power, Dominique. Your life and death deserve to be acknowledged. You deserved many more years filled with joy, happiness, and the chance to be your authentic self. I am so sorry this was ripped away from you. Your name will not be forgotten. May your memory be a revolution.  




Transgender woman Dominique Lucious, 26, was shot and killed on April 8 in her apartment in Springfield Mo. The SPD have arrested Charles Nelson, 28, and charged him with 2nd-degree murder.


Man arrested for a Springfield Mo. woman’s murder
April 9, 2021
Share
Dominique Lucious

Transgender woman Dominique Lucious, 26, was shot and killed on April 8 in her apartment in Springfield Mo. The SPD have arrested Charles Nelson, 28, and charged him with 2nd-degree murder.

According to the police report on April 8, 2021, at 6:51 a.m., Springfield Police were dispatched to 905 N. Main after a 911 caller reported that a person had been shot.  When officers arrived, they found the victim inside an apartment who had suffered gunshot wounds. The victim was pronounced deceased at the scene.

The victim was identified as Dominique Lucious 26-year-old transgender female from Springfield, MO. Next of kin notifications have been made.

The Springfield Police Department Violent Crimes Unit identified a suspect in the case as Charles Nelson, a 28-year-old male from Springfield, MO. Nelson was arrested and booked into the Greene County Jail for 2nd Degree Murder. The case will be presented to the Greene County Prosecutor’s Office for review and potential filing of criminal charges.

Detectives continue to investigate and are asking anyone who has information about this incident to contact the Springfield Police Department at 417-864-1810 or make an anonymous call to Crime Stoppers at 417-869-TIPS (8477).

A friend shared “Rest In Peace Dominique Doingme Lucious i Love You So Much Cousin ?? I Was Closer To You Than Almost Anybody .. I Wish You Wouldve Called Me Cousin You Could Have Came Here … I Can’t Handle This , You Didn’t Deserve This …. i Love You”

She will be missed.

Rest In Peace Dominique Lucious

https://www.pghlesbian.com/2021/04/black-trans-woman-dominique-lucious-26-is-the-14th-victim-of-transphobic-homicide

https://planettransgender.com/man-arrested-for-a-springfield-mo-womans-murder

https://www.ky3.com/2021/04/09/springfield-police-arrest-suspect-identify-victim-in-homicide-investigation-thursday
