Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-03-12T08:41:53+00:00

====== Drika Rodrigues Sales (Manaus - 10 Mar 2021) ======
Created Friday 12 March 2021
@violence



Drika Rodrigues Sales [Rodrigo Rodrigues Sales]
26
11 Mar 2021
Avenida Brigadeiro Hilário Gurjão
Jorge Teixeira
Manaus
Amazonas
Brazil
-3.0350387,-59.9353772
shot


Drika Rodrigues Sales was shot in the Jorge Teixeira neighborhood of Manaus, Amazonas (Brazil) on 11 Mar 2021.

She was 26.





Transsexual dies with gunshot to death in Manaus hospital
Witnesses said that 'Drika' was working at the 'point' where she was doing the program, on Avenida Hilário Gurjão, in the Jorge Teixeira neighborhood, on the east side of the city, when she was surprised by the sniper.
Transsexual dies with gunshot to death in Manaus hospital
Photo: From the Newsroom / Portal AM1 *
Mairkon Castro - Portal AM1 *
March 11, 2021 - 11:58 am | - Updated 1 day ago
A transsexual identified as “Drica” died, this Thursday morning (11), at João Lúcio Hospital and Emergency Room. The transsexual was left at the hospital during the night, wounded with a gunshot to the head, and ended up not resisting and going to death.

Witnesses who witnessed the crime said that “Drica” was working at the point where she is doing a program on Avenida Hilário Gurjão, in the Jorge Teixeira neighborhood, east of the city, when she was surprised by the sniper.

At the hospital, the victim's father, who declined to be identified, said that the transsexual was 30 years old and was suffering threats, that is, she did the job and did not receive it, because the man refused to pay. "In order for her not to be harmed, she took some belongings from the man, who started to threaten her with death," said the father of the transsexual.

So far, it has not been possible to identify the perpetrator of the crime. Witnesses claimed that it was possible to hear the gunshots and, when they approached, the trans was lying on the floor and injured.

The case should be investigated by the Specialized Homicide and Kidnapping Precinct (DEHS). The body of “Drika” was removed to the Instituto Médico Legal (IML) and, in the next few hours, it should be released to the family.





Trans woman dies after being shot in the head in Jorge Teixeira

Suspects arrived in a vehicle and fired about five gunshots at the victim; of the five shots, one hit the head region

Posted on 11/03/21 at 09h00

Manaus - A trans woman, identified so far only by her birth name, Rodrigo Rodrigues Sales, 30, was murdered at dawn on Thursday (11), on Avenida Brigadeiro Hilário Gurgel, in the Jorge Teixeira neighborhood, east zone of Manaus.

According to preliminary information, she allegedly was conducting programs and was in the area by 12:00 am, when some men arrived in a vehicle and fired about five shots of a firearm at her. Of these five, only one shot was hit in the head region.

Military police officers from the 25th Interactive Community Company (Cicom) responded to the incident and triggered first aid. The model of the car used by the suspects remains unknown and those involved have not yet been identified.

The Mobile Emergency Care Service (SAMU) sent the victim still alive to the Hospital and Emergency Room Dr João Lúcio, located on Avenida Cosme Ferreira, Coroado neighborhood, east of the capital.

After a few hours in the hospital, the trans woman did not resist and died. The information is contained in the report of the Instituto Médico Legal (IML).

According to information from the victim's family members, she was reportedly involved with an unknown client, who refused to pay for her service. With that, she would have taken over some valuables as a guarantee of payment of the debt. The victim's father says that she had been threatened by this suspect.

The victim's father suspects that the client may have gone to the scene again to seek revenge, as they were unaware of disaffection on his part.

The Specialized Homicide and Kidnapping Precinct (DEHS) is investigating the case, but there is still no information on the identity of those involved or the real reasons that motivated the crime.


Manaus - A 26-year-old transsexual, whose name has not yet been released, was murdered with a gunshot to the head, at dawn on Thursday (11), on Avenida Brigadeiro Hilário Gurjão, in the Jorge Teixeira neighborhood, in the North Zone of Manaus . She still came to the rescue, but she could not resist her injuries and died in the hospital.

According to witnesses, the victim was walking on the avenue when she was surprised by the criminal. Residents of the area called a team from the Mobile Emergency Care Service (Samu), who took care of the victim and sent her to the João Lúcio Hospital and Emergency Room, where she did not resist the injuries and died. 

Her relatives reported that the victim was being threatened by a man with whom she had relationships. He would not have paid to maintain relations with her, with which she would have confiscated his objects. 

https://amazonas1.com.br/morre-transexual-deixada-com-tiro-na-cabeca-em-hospital-de-manaus/

https://www.portaltucuma.com.br/mulher-trans-morre-apos-ser-baleada-com-tiro-na-cabeca-no-jorge-teixeira/

https://revistacenarium.com.br/transexual-morre-ao-ser-baleada-na-cabeca-na-zona-leste-de-manaus/

https://d.emtempo.com.br/policia-amazonas/295809/transexual-e-assassinada-com-tiro-na-cabeca-em-manaus
