Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-14T17:04:00+01:00

====== Jesus Ochandio (Mar del Plata - 6 Mar 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 14 April 2021
@violence


Jesús Ochandio ("La Ochandio)
68
6 Mar 2021
Mar del Plata
Buenos Aires 
Argentina
stabbed



They demand justice for Jesús Ochandio, a transvestite assassinated in Mar del Plata
The viciousness, violence and the intention to burn the body to erase traces is typical of a hate crime, they denounce from activism.


By Sandra Maidana, from Mar del Plata

At dawn on March 6, residents of the Jorge Newbery neighborhood of Mar del Plata were alerted by smoke from a fire that had broken out in the house on 210 and Colón streets. Once the firefighters were able to suffocate it, they discovered inside the body of its resident, Alberto Jesús Ochandio, 68 years old. The autopsy requested by Prosecutor No. 5 by Dr. Alejandro Pellegrinelli revealed the presence of more than twenty stab wounds. The viciousness, violence and the intention to burn the body to erase traces is typical of a hate crime, they denounce from activism.  

Two days after the crime, the alleged murderer was arrested: a 27-year-old boy with blood-stained clothes and some of the victim's belongings. The young man had a sex-affective relationship with Jesus. Despite the fact that in his statement in court he denied the charges, he continues to be detained in the 44th Criminal Unit of Batán and the prosecution has fifteen days - which can be extended - to advance with the investigation and request preventive detention.   

"He loved the theater"
Jesús had a family made up of his brother Daniel, his nieces Yanina and Daiana, three great-nephews and one on the way. Yanina spoke with Agencia Presentes. “The uncle was a very good person. He loved the theater. He was a fan of Mirtha Legrand whom he imitated a lot and when he came to Mar del Plata he would see her. She knew him, she knew he was imitating her and she liked to see him ”.

Jesus in his youth took drama classes with Norman Briski. “In Mar del Plata he worked teaching acting classes. On birthdays he would dress up and he would always do a show for us and on those of the children as well. It was very funny. "

He belonged to the Atahualpa Cooperative where he worked as a worker in the popular economy . One of his friends, Cintia Pili, a gender and diversity leader in the organization, remembers him. “I have known him for more than 25 years, in his splendor. Always in a good mood. Loved. I worked cleaning public toilets in city squares ”. Women are generally employed in these tasks, but he was the only male in that position.


"This is a hate crime"
"Solidary. Militant, says Cintia. He cooked in the community dining room La Ollita, which distributed food for 200 families. I was also happy because this year I was going to start teaching theater classes for free ”. The courses were scheduled at Casa Pueblo Unidos, the space for social, labor and political training to which he belonged.

La Ochandio was in her character as a transforming actor and humorist who with great talent displayed characters with whom she built comedy pieces.


Cintia saw him on Friday, the day before his death, and told him that he had received his salary. However, you cannot link your crime with a robbery. “It is a hate crime for their affective sex orientation. The one who was arrested was his partner who set him on fire to cover up the evidence ”.

Cintia assures that “It is not just to apologize. Violence is a class issue. We are different, we are all diversity in the world. But we are survivors. Jesus achieved many things, he achieved a place of belonging, he managed to be and to feel content. Unfortunately he came across a person who murdered him.

“We have achieved many things with the union, we have been able to banish the differences we have in human rights such as equal marriage, the gender identity identity law, the trans quota and we have to continue advancing in conquering new rights for all people. that inhabit Argentine soil. It is impossible to understand that there is so much hatred towards such beautiful people who did nothing to anyone like Jesus was. I just hope that justice is served ”.

"We demand an anti-discrimination law"
In their official statement from the Atahualpa cooperative they declare that “La Ochandio was a fellow militant who was very dear to everyone, very supportive. I worked in the cleaning and maintenance of public toilets with 40 fellow workers of the Popular economy of our Movement and collaborated in the kitchen of a community dining room. He was also a highly talented transformer actor, a theater teacher who displayed humorous characters and made people laugh, acting was his passion.

“From our organization together with AMI (Asociación Mundo Igualitario de Mar del Plata) we accompany the pain of his family demanding justice. We highlight their dissident identity, and demand an anti-discrimination law to address sexist violence against gender dissidents. We will always have the memory of this great fellow militant ”.

The family seeks a lawyer
Yanina has just arrived from the court where she went to find out how the case was going. They told him that as soon as there was news they were going to summon them. They are looking for a lawyer. Daniel, his only brother, is perplexed, unable to understand. In a note that came out on a local television channel, he was seen so sad that he could hardly speak. “It was not a natural death. It was the only thing he had left of his native family, explains the niece ”.

The details of the news were still not known and the March 8M was launched, which was massive in Mar del Plata with more than 10 blocks of people walking in avenues with the best possible health care. The caravan carried a flag, songs and applause in recognition of Jesus, his life, his present humor, now and forever.



https://agenciapresentes.org/2021/03/15/reclaman-justicia-por-jesus-ochandio-transformista-asesinado-en-mar-del-plata/
