Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-06-24T09:49:32+01:00

====== La Guaraca (Naranjal - 22 Jun 2021) ======
Created Thursday 24 June 2021
@violence





La Guaraca [Carlos Patricio Guaraca]
2021_06_22_La-Guaraca.jpg
https://quenoticias.com/comunidad/la-guaraca-trans-asesinada-naranjal-guayas/
22 Jun 2021
Brisas del Río
Naranjal
Guayas
Ecuador
shot



The young trans man murdered in Naranjal was known as "La Guaraca" and months ago he had denounced a medical malpractice carried out on his niece
Community
23 Jun 2021 17:04
The young trans man murdered in Naranjal was known as "La Guaraca" and months ago he had denounced a medical malpractice carried out on his niece

There is outrage in Naranjal, Guayas, for the murder of Carlos Patricio Guaraca Domínguez, on Tuesday, June 22. According to a statement from the Silhouette X Association, it is about a young trans woman known as La Guaraca, who would have been the victim of a hit man , for which she asks for an impartial investigation.


Carlos Patricio Guaraca Domínguez, a young trans man murdered in his business premises on Tuesday, June 22. Photo. Capture video on Facebook VATelevision

The association indicates that months ago Guaraca had denounced a medical malpractice carried out to his niece, in a medical center in Naranjal, Guayas, "which was apparently serious from the destruction of her uterus," EFE reports. "When he made this complaint, he was crying for justice with the photo in hand of his niece," said the organization to show that the young man was a human rights defender.

"She was brutally murdered by, apparently, several hit men in the Brisas del Río sector in the Naranje canton," said the LGBTIQ + association. Several subjects on motorcycles came to that sector "in which the companion humbly attended at her kiosk and inflicted approximately eight bullet holes in her body," they point out.

La Guaraca, as they affectionately called him, was taken to the Naranjal hospital, where only his death was confirmed. Both friends and family do not know the motive for the crime. The association asked the Human Rights Secretariat to set up an inter-institutional table with the Office of the Prosecutor , the National Police and the Council of the Judiciary to open an impartial investigation. (I)




They denounce the alleged murder of a young trans woman in Ecuador
23 June 2021 - 14:25
Quito, Jun 23 (EFE) .- The Silhouette X Association denounced on Wednesday the alleged murder of a young trans woman in the coastal province of Guayas, located in southwestern Ecuador.

In a statement, the Association pointed out that on Tuesday, the young trans woman known as "La Guaraca", from the town of Naranjal, in Guayas, "was brutally murdered by, apparently, several hitmen in the Brisas del Río sector in the canton. naranjeño ".

Based on unofficial preliminary information, the Association indicated that "it is known that several individuals came to this sector in which the companion humbly attended at her kiosk and inflicted approximately 8 bullet holes in her body."

The subjects, who were traveling on two motorcycles, immediately fled, the letter said.

La Guaraca, as they affectionately told him, was taken to the Naranjal hospital as a result of the serious injuries, where only his death was confirmed, adds the information, which indicates that both friends and family do not know the motive for the event.

He recalls that months ago, he had reported a medical malpractice carried out to his niece, in a Naranjal medical center, "which was apparently serious from the destruction of her uterus.

"When he made this complaint, he was crying for justice with the photo in the hand of his niece," he notes.

The Association asked the Secretariat for Human Rights to establish an inter-institutional table that includes the Office of the Prosecutor, the National Police and the Council of the Judiciary, among other institutions, to allow an impartial investigation to find those responsible for the incident.

So far the Runa Sipiy Report of the Silhouette X Association records six alleged murders so far in 2021 against LGBTIQ + populations. EFE


https://quenoticias.com/comunidad/la-guaraca-trans-asesinada-naranjal-guayas/

https://www.swissinfo.ch/spa/ecuador-lgtb_denuncian-el-presunto-asesinato-de-una-joven-trans-en-ecuador/46729658
