Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-03-20T08:50:10+00:00

====== Name Unknown (Manzillo - 19 Mar 2021) ======
Created Saturday 20 March 2021
@violence




Name Unknown
30-35
19 Mar 2021
calle Bellena
zona indurstrial
Manzanillo
Colima
Mexico
shot


They condemn the murder of a transgender woman in Colima
Sexual diversity activists condemned the murder of a transgender woman in the Tapeixtles industrial zone of the Manzanillo municipality.
They condemn the murder of a transgender woman in Colima
The corpse had a bullet impact in the head .. Photo: Yahir Ceballos
COLIMA, Col. (apro) .- Activists of sexual diversity condemned the murder of a transgender woman, which occurred early this Friday in the industrial zone of Tapeixtles, municipality of Manzanillo.

Although the State Attorney General's Office (FGE) did not release official information about the event, unofficial versions indicate that the body of the victim, between 30 and 35 years old, was found on Ballenas Street, with a bullet hit in the head.

Marco Antonio Pérez Gaspar, counselor of the Human Rights Commission of the State of Colima (CDHEC), warned that, according to the protocol approved in 2019, this case must be investigated as femicide.

He pointed out that the FGE is also required to train and sensitize its personnel for the treatment of these cases, and considered it necessary that the respective protocol be made known to society and the media to avoid revictimizing trans people. and other members of the sexual diversity sector who suffer a crime.

In addition to this, Pérez Gaspar noted that there are still media and journalists who maintain a transphobic and discriminatory stance towards this sector, refusing to recognize people with their chosen gender identity, referring to the victims as "men dressed as women."

He indicated that although there are some advances in the laws in relation to sexual diversity in Colima, which give the possibility of making changes in the birth certificates to recognize the gender identity adopted by the person, resistance prevails from some sectors in around respect for the rights of the trans community.

Likewise, he said that, by not reporting on the attacks against members of sexual diversity, the FGE contributes to the invisibility of violence against this sector, since both in this and in previous cases the corporation has not officially disclosed the facts.

For its part, the group Pride Dissident issued a statement in which it repudiated the transfemicide in Manzanillo and demanded an expedited investigation for the application of justice, as well as "an urgent change in the model to combat insecurity that it demonstrates, with the blood of so many of ours, to be a failure ”.

The organization also repudiated the handling of information that some media have made on these matters, "reproducing transodiant speeches that lead to murders like the one this morning."

https://www.proceso.com.mx/nacional/estados/2021/3/20/condenan-asesinato-de-mujer-transgenero-en-colima-260425.html

https://www.colimanoticias.com/acribillan-a-mujer-trans-en-tapeixtles/
