Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-06-15T08:44:26+01:00

====== Nicolly Xavier Azevedo (Luziania - 12 Jun 2021) ======
Created Tuesday 15 June 2021
@violence



Nicolly Xavier Azevedo
39
https://g1.globo.com/go/goias/noticia/2021/06/14/familia-cobra-justica-por-morte-de-transexual-que-ficou-cinco-meses-internada-apos-levar-mais-de-20-facadas-em-luziania.ghtml
12 Jun 2021
Luziânia
Goiás
Brazil
stabbed
[stabbed on 11 Jan; died 5 months later in hospital]


Nicolly Xavier Azevedo died in hospital inLuziânia, Goiás (Brazil) on 12 Jun 2021 - 5 months after being stabbed by a man she had a relationship with on 11 Jan 2021.

She was 39.



Family demands justice for the death of a transsexual who was hospitalized for five months after being stabbed more than 20, in Luziânia

Prima believes that 39-year-old Nicolly Xavier Azevedo was killed by a young woman she was related to. Police even asked for the suspect's arrest, but the judge denied it.
By Millena Barbosa, G1 GO

06/14/2021 5:08 PM  Updated 10 hours ago

Relatives of transsexual Nicolly Xavier Azevedo, 39, who died after being hospitalized for five months after taking more than 20 stab wounds, charge for justice. According to cousin Gislany Nicole Lourenço, the victim was killed by a man she had a relationship with in the house where she lived, in Luziânia, in the vicinity of the Federal District. The Civil Police investigates the case.

“Just thinking that my cousin's killer is out there, out there, without paying for what he did, we haven't even slept. We will only rest when we are sure that he is paying for the crime he committed,” he said.

Nicolly died last Saturday (12). According to Gislany, family members realized that something was strange after the transsexual did not show up for work on January 11 this year, a Monday. In search of answers, the victim's mother and sister went to her house, when they found her unconscious and with several puncture wounds on her body.

“She worked as a day laborer and never missed work. But that day she didn't show up. Her boss thought something was amiss and called my aunt. Then they went to her house and found her all bloody and passed out. We believe she was stabbed at dawn on that same day,” he said.
After being found by family members, Nicolly was taken to an Emergency Care Unit (UPA) in Luziânia and then transferred to a hospital in the Federal District, where she was hospitalized for more than five months. According to the family, last Saturday, when she was undergoing stomach surgery, she did not resist and died.

“She was stabbed in the back, arms, face and private parts. A few stab wounds hit her bone marrow, which left her paraplegic. She spent all this time in the hospital struggling to survive, but unfortunately she couldn't," she said.

According to the police report recorded by the victim's sister on the day she was found unconscious, family members found her lying beside a bed with a knife and personal documents of a 22-year-old boy. To the police, the victim's mother reported that this would be the man she was relating to and that she was unaware of any reason that could have led him to commit the crime.

After the occurrence was registered, the Civil Police began investigating the case through the Specialized Police Service for Women in Luziânia (Deam). To G1 , on the afternoon of Monday (14), police chief Victor Avelino said that the investigations are advanced and the police inquiry should be concluded this week.

“The family members were heard on the day of the fact. A team from the Specialized Police Service for Women went to the hospital and recorded the victim. We are going to carry out other steps in order to complete the investigations and send the inquiry to the Judiciary”, said delegate Victor Avelino.

According to the investigator, a request for temporary arrest against the suspect was asked to the courts during the investigations, but was denied. In the decision, judge Marco Antônio Azevedo Jacob de Araújo stated that despite a criminal investigation, "the need for temporary injunction of the person under investigation was not demonstrated in the records".


https://g1.globo.com/go/goias/noticia/2021/06/14/familia-cobra-justica-por-morte-de-transexual-que-ficou-cinco-meses-internada-apos-levar-mais-de-20-facadas-em-luziania.ghtml
