Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-20T21:07:42+01:00

====== Paula Migeon (Reims - 7 Apr 2021) ======
Created Tuesday 20 April 2021
@violence



Paula Migeon
50
7 Apr 2021
203 avenue de Laon
Reims
Marne
France
raped and stabbed

Paula Migeon was raped and stabbed in her own home in Reims, Marne (France) on 7 Apr 2021. Her killer then set the property ablaze to try to conceal the crime.

Paula was 50.


Following reports of a murder in Reims, sexist transphobic media including gay media such as @TETUmag and @komitid_fr,insulted and called a person a "transvestite" because of his sex, gender expression and gender identity, unacceptable!

A man was arrested on charges of murder, aggravated rape, theft, fraud, and arson on Friday, April 16, by the prosecutor's office in Reims.

Tribunal Judicaire Reims

On April 7, a person was found dead with wounds to his neck on Laon Avenue in his partially burned apartment in Reims.

The man allegedly raped, then chiseled the victim, who was dressed in women's clothing, then stripped naked, and set his belongings on fire.

The perpetrator, a 27-year-old Congolese man of Congolese origin, who has lived in France since 2017 in Châlons-en-Champagne, admitted the murder, raped the victim, then deliberately set fire to the apartment to erase the traces, and also admitted stealing and using his blue card, which helped find the murderer, it remains to be established how he met his victim , according to judicial sources.

The defendant has already been indicted in 2019 in Evry for a similar case by an attempted homicide in 2017 on a trans woman in Essonne.

The Prosecutor of the Republic of Reims transphobic and sexist did not accept the murder, the rape of the victim because of his gender identity. The murderer faces life imprisonment.

"SOS Transphobia strongly condemns this hateful act, but also strongly condemns all those transphobic anti-gender media that have intentionally insulted, treated a person as a 'transvestite' because of his gender, gender expression and gender identity.

We're asking that all the light be shed, and that all the shadows of this case be cleared, and that thevictim's true or supposed gender identity be taken into account.

As usual, another prosecutor's office that does not take into account all the laws in force and all the parameters of the case in this case the true or supposed gender identity of the victim."

Stop the false information! "An expression of gender and/or gender identityis not a sexualorientation."

Update - 20/04/2021 - The victim is a 50-year-old Trans woman murdered in Reims by a man who is in custody for aggravated rape and murder.

 

In france and around the world, there will be a lot of protests in his tribute and against transphobia.


Intox is a Trans Woman Transgender flag murdered and raped by a man in her apartment in Reims!

Rape followed by murder in Reims: the alleged perpetrator imprisoned, homophobic motivation retained
3
Posted on 04/16/2021 at 6:14 pm
Fabrice Curlier

A 27-year-old young man was indicted on Friday following the murder of a 50-year-old who was found slaughtered on April 7 during a fire in his apartment on avenue de Laon in Reims. The victim was raped before being killed. The homophobic nature of the crime is retained by the courts.

The tragedy was discovered after the victim's bathroom was set on fire.  FC Photo
The tragedy was discovered after the victim's bathroom was set on fire. FC Photo
NOTeuf just days after the death of a 51-year-old bachelor found slaughtered during the fire in his apartment in a residence on avenue de Laon, in Reims, on the evening of April 7, the alleged perpetrator is was preparing this Friday evening to spend his first night in prison. Presented in the afternoon at the education center in Reims , a 27-year-old Congolese, Jean-Paul Isaki, was indicted for "rape and murder committed because of sexual orientation or identity of the victim ” . In the current state of investigations, justice indeed retains the hypothesis of a homophobic crime.

The suspect was also indicted for the arson of the apartment, as well as for the theft and fraudulent use of the victim's bank card.

A mysterious visit to Reims
The naked body of the fifty-year-old, mutilated from fourteen stab wounds to the throat and cervical area, had been discovered by firefighters at the entrance to his bathroom in which the fire had been lit with an accelerant, such as a cleaning product. domesticated. Alerted by the smell of burning, a neighbor had seen someone come out of the apartment. The police officers of the SRPJ of Reims had only this single testimony at the very beginning of the investigation. Quite quickly, however, technical investigations made it possible to trace a suspect through the use of the bank card stolen from the victim, in particular for Uber Eats and Airbnb payments.

A name then appeared: that of Jean-Paul Isaki, domiciled in Châlons-en-Champagne but frequently in the Paris region. It was in an Airbnb room in Évry (Essonne) that the PJ arrested him on Thursday morning. Placed in police custody, he confessed, without however dispelling certain gray areas. The conditions under which he arrived at the fifties, whom he did not know, remain unclear.

Investigations by the judicial police enabled the case to be resolved within a week.  FC Photo
Investigations by the judicial police enabled the case to be resolved within a week. FC Photo
According to his statements reported at a press conference by the prosecutor Matthieu Bourrette, an individual who had defrauded him of 500 euros with a bad check had given him an appointment with the victim to resolve the problem (the investigation did not found no evidence to support this version). Still according to his statements, he entered by force the tenant, "who was dressed as a woman . " "The investigation made it possible to establish that the deceased, homosexual, disguised himself but only at home, occasionally receiving men without connotation of prostitution" , specifies the prosecutor.

Woman's Hair and Clothes Cut Out
An altercation would have broken out with the tenant, while the respondent searched the apartment, looking for his 500 euros. "Gaining the upper hand, he would have strangled him. He would then have continued his search, and would have noticed that the victim on the ground was starting to move again. He would then have pulled her to her bed to rape her, while preventing her from screaming by putting a pillow on her head. " The magistrate reports these chilling words held in custody: " Since the victim was waiting for a meeting and she wanted sex, he had taken advantage of her. "

“Mr. Isaki then continued his search of the apartment, and noting that the victim had risen to his feet by threatening to call the police, he decided to take a pair of scissors and hit her repeatedly. He then explained that he had stripped the victim naked, cut off the woman's clothes she was wearing, cut off her hair and dragged the body in front of the bathroom. ” He also admitted “ having set fire to the bathroom where he had stored the cut clothes, in order to erase traces and clues ” .

"Attempted murder" of a transsexual
Born in Kinshasa in 1994, arrived in France in 2017, Jean-Paul Isaki held a 10-year residence permit issued by the prefecture of Essonne, with refugee status. Living on odd jobs, he had left Corbeil to settle in Châlons. He has never been convicted, but was under judicial control as part of an information opened in November 2019 for "attempted murder" on an escort girl who was a transsexual, in 2017 in Évry.

Followed in his analysis by the examining magistrate, the prosecutor puts forward several reasons to justify “the qualification of“ aggravated murder because of the orientation or the sexual identity of the victim ” . “To the extent that it is established that the woman's clothes that she wore were cut, and that the respondent admits having cut her hair, these two elements may suggest that he was seeking to masculinize her. In addition, the foregoing facts with which he is accused make it possible to question his will to attack exclusively transvestites or transsexuals. "

The homophobic nature of rape was also retained, "the conditions of the act being able to suggest a kind of punitive act" .

Like the investigators, the prosecutor wonders: “He says he is heterosexual. Are we dealing with someone who does not accept his homosexuality, represses it, and whom he would transform into violence towards transsexuals and transvestites, up to the point of homicide? " The psychological and psychiatric assessments will be of great use to try to understand his exact motivations.



Reims: the murderer who burned down the apartment of his victim still on the run
Posted on 04/9/2021 at 9:43 pm
Two days after the murder of a 51-year-old Rémois who was found slaughtered during the fire in his apartment, the investigation has not yet identified the perpetrator.

The investigation now seems to be taking place over time to elucidate the murder on the avenue de Laon.  FC
The investigation now seems to be taking place over time to elucidate the murder on the avenue de Laon. FC
Qwho killed Paul Migeon? Two days after the murder of this 51-year-old Rémois, found slaughtered during the fire in his apartment on Wednesday evening avenue de Laon , the perpetrator is still wanted by the police from the SRPJ in Reims. The investigation now seems to settle in the long term to be able to identify it, and to know the mobile.

Handling worker, single, Paul Migeon led a discreet existence on the second floor of a residence located at nº203 avenue de Laon. He had received someone on the evening of the incident, probably the same individual that witnesses say they saw leaving the building, and who could be the murderer.

The fire started in the bathroom
No scream, no sound of a fight was heard by the neighbors. They sounded the alert at 10:40 p.m. when a fire located in the victim's bathroom smoked the building. On their arrival, the emergency services discovered her in cardiac arrest in her apartment, her neck cut by large stab wounds which are clearly the cause of death.

Did the murderer set fire to erase the traces of his crime? When he fled, he took care to close the door behind him: it was not open when the neighbors on the landing, alerted by the smell of smoke, left their accommodation to wait for the firefighters in front of the building.


Murder and apartment fire in Reims: a suspect brought to justice
Posted on 04/16/2021 at 1:13 pm
A little over a week after the discovery of the body of a 51-year-old man, found slaughtered during the fire in his apartment, avenue de Laon, in Reims, a suspect was taken into police custody.

The drama occurred on the evening of April 7, in a residence on Avenue de Laon.  FC Photo
The drama occurred on the evening of April 7, in a residence on Avenue de Laon. FC Photo
Une week after the death of a 50-year-old found slain in his apartment fire on the evening of April 7 in a residence on avenue de Laon in Reims, the investigation is well on the way to being resolved. Placed in police custody Thursday morning, a man suspected of being the author of the facts will be presented this Friday afternoon at the Reims investigation center. The prosecution will request his indictment for "aggravated murder because of the sexual orientation of the victim" . No information has yet filtered out on the merits of the case. Prosecutor Matthieu Bourrette will hold a press conference at the end of the afternoon.

51-year-old single, the deceased, Paul Migeon, led a discreet existence on the second floor of the residence located at nº203 avenue de Laon. No scream, no sound of a fight was heard by the neighbors on the evening of the incident. The alert was given at 10:40 pm, when a fire started in the bathroom - to erase traces of the crime? - had smoked the building.

When they arrived in the apartment, the emergency services had discovered the victim in cardiac arrest, the neck cut by stab wounds, at the origin of the death. Seized of the investigation, the police officers of the SRPJ of Reims will not therefore have taken long to find the trace of the alleged murderer.


<blockquote class="twitter-tweet"><p lang="fr" dir="ltr">Communiqué de presse du 21 Avril 2021: <br><br>(lien du communiqué en version textuelle pour usage avec les lecteurs d&#39;écran: <a href="https://t.co/8wcP4FnosZ">https://t.co/8wcP4FnosZ</a>) <a href="https://t.co/b1TNFL72lP">pic.twitter.com/b1TNFL72lP</a></p>&mdash; Association exaequo 🏳️‍🌈 (@ExaequoReims) <a href="https://twitter.com/ExaequoReims/status/1384850361706500101?ref_src=twsrc%5Etfw">April 21, 2021</a></blockquote>
<script async src="https://platform.twitter.com/widgets.js" charset="utf-8"></script>


Press release of April 21, 2021:
INVITATION TO GATHERING
Dear friends, dear partners, dear elected officials in your titles and qualities,
Today, it is time for Paula to support her family in this terrible mourning following this abject crime of April 7, 2021 in Reims.
In 25 years of existence, the association has always defended our right to exist.
Unfortunately, with every new atrocity, awaken in us very strong feelings, where each of us recognizes ourselves once again, once again:
′′ This could have happened to me ",
′′ Never again! Our lives are valuable! ".
We can only suffer and allow these crimes to be inclined in the banality of various facts.
That's why we decided to act by being with Paula's family throughout the investigation and in the upcoming trial, building ourselves a Civil Party.
Mourad BENKOUSSA, a criminal lawyer at ACG firm, has agreed to assist Paula's family and our association in this constitution of civil parties.
While waiting for justice to do its work, we invite you to join us this Saturday, April 24, 2021 at 10 p.m. Place Saint Thomas in Reims.
The family, living on the Perpignan Region, will be physically alongside LGBT Scotia from 11 hours onwards.
Nevertheless, he cared for him to also be present with us, at least through thought.
The family shared the speaker they wish to bring to our gathering.
Paula's ordeal is sadly part of the history of the LGBTQI community +.
But we will fight, through the legal channels, alongside the family, to ensure that such ignominies are part of the past and that such acts are punished up to what they are.
Since 2017, the law has created an aggravating crime against any person ′′ in consideration of the victim or group of persons of which the victim is a member on the grounds of his gender, sexual orientation or gender identity true or supposed ".
This aggravating circumstance has been held against Paula's alleged perpetrator.
The Association Exaequo, LGBT+ Reims Center since 1996, wishes to publicly recall the importance of respecting the wishes of the victim who had come out as a woman trans to her family.
To take over Laura's words, his niece: ′′ My uncle said he was a woman born into the wrong body. But it was first and foremost a PERSON, who wanted to love and be loved ".
Samuel TARCY,
President of the House




https://www.lunion.fr/id249727/article/2021-04-16/meurtre-de-reims-lauteur-presume-ecroue-la-motivation-homophobe-retenue

https://www.lunion.fr/id247963/article/2021-04-09/reims-le-meurtrier-qui-incendie-lappartement-de-sa-victime-court-toujours

https://tetu.com/2021/04/19/a-reims-un-homme-en-detention-provisoire-apres-le-meurtre-femme-trans/

https://www.20minutes.fr/faits_divers/3023175-20210417-reims-homme-ecroue-viol-meurtre-homme-gay

https://www.rtl.fr/actu/justice-faits-divers/reims-un-homme-ecroue-pour-le-meurtre-et-le-viol-d-un-homme-travesti-7900021081

https://www.fdesouche.com/2021/04/19/reims-un-congolais-qui-vit-en-france-depuis-2017-a-reconnu-etre-lauteur-dun-viol-et-meurtre-homophobe/

https://www.lunion.fr/id249621/article/2021-04-16/meurtre-et-feu-dappartement-reims-un-suspect-presente-la-justice

https://www.sos-transphobie.org/transphobie-des-medias-sur-un-meurtre-a-reims

https://www.facebook.com/exaequoreims/posts/5392129587495546

https://www.facebook.com/NNoff/posts/5668952646448044

https://twitter.com/ExaequoReims/status/1384850361706500101

https://pastebin.com/3n16zcJg
