Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-04-14T17:01:01+01:00

====== Vanessa Zuniga (Tela - 28 Mar 2021) ======
Created Wednesday 14 April 2021
@violence


Vanessa Zúniga
43
28 Mar 2021
Colonias Unidas
Tela
Atlántida
Honduras
throat cut



They demand that the crime of Vanessa Zúniga not go unpunished: the Honduran trans activist was slit her throat
Vanessa Zúniga was trans and worked as a volunteer in the Association for Prevention and Education in Health, Sexuality, AIDS and Human Rights. They found her with her throat slit on Monday, March 28.

Vanessa-Zuniga-1

Dunia Orellana, from San Pedro Sula

Vanessa Zúniga was a 43-year-old trans woman, she worked as a volunteer in the Association for Prevention and Education in Health, Sexuality, AIDS and Human Rights (APREST) ??and on Sunday, March 27, no one knew about her . They found her beaten, half-naked and with her throat slit in a vacant lot in the port of Tela, on the Atlantic coast of Honduras, the next day, Monday the 28th. 

Vanessa lived with her father and sisters in this municipality. It was his family members who recognized his body on Tuesday 29 at the San Pedro Sula Forensic Medicine facilities. “On Monday they reported a corpse that was left in his underwear and that he had his belongings at his side, such as a shirt and red tennis shoes. I was in Colonias Unidas, two meters from the Public Ministry ”, the executive director of the Association for Prevention and Education in Health, Sexuality, AIDS and Human Rights (APREST), Leonel Barahona Medina, tells Agencia Presentes. "It was Vanessa, who was like 24 hours after she died."

According to an official of the Honduran National Police, the Police Investigation Directorate (DPI) and the Unit for the Homicides of Persons Belonging to Vulnerable Groups are working on the case. 

Vanessa survived by selling items on a very small scale and doing housekeeping. “He had a bicycle with a truck [a kind of cart] where he sold water and cigarettes. He also washed other people's clothes and cleaned houses, ”explains Barahona.


The authorities have several hypotheses of the fact, but at the scene where the body was found, they could not find evidence in the security cameras or eyewitnesses of the fact. "It is a very complicated case, but we hope to obtain more details and thus give an answer," the officer told Presentes. 

They demand justice from the Public Ministry 

The body of the Honduran trans activist remained one day in the morgue in the city of San Pedro Sula, in northern Honduras, where Vanessa's brother-in-law went to take her to the port of Tela. "They could not watch her," says the director of APREST, Leonel Barahona, for Presentes. "The same day they recognized her, they took the body to Tela to bury it around 7:00 PM." 

LGBTI and human rights organizations cry out for justice. "It was a vile murder," called the  LGTB Access to Justice Table,  which brings together 11 national organizations, after the death of the APREST volunteer in a statement issued on April 2. In the statement, the Board demanded that the Public Ministry carry out "an exhaustive investigation into the murder of the human rights defender Vanessa Zúniga." 


"The way they killed her is a hate crime," says human rights defender Leo Barahona. " She had already received threats ." 

The voices that were raised calling for justice for this new murder against the LGBTI population are joined by that of  the National Commissioner for Human Rights  (CONADEH). In a statement published on April 3, CONADEH regretted the murder of Vanessa Zúniga and urged the Public Ministry to investigate it. The representative of the government institution, Blanca Izaguirre, lamented the murder and advocated that it not remain in  complete impunity,  as it continues to happen with these crimes.

From June 2009 to the present there have  been 373 violent deaths. Of all of them, 119 were trans people. The cases have a 91% impunity rate. Despite having achieved the inclusion in the new Penal Code of the aggravating circumstance of violence based on sexual orientation, expression and gender identity, no sentence in this country has taken it into account. 

They keep killing trans people in Honduras 

According to the Observatory of Violent Deaths of LGBTI People of the  Lesbian Network Cattrachas ,  2020 ended with 20  hate crimes . So far in 2021 there have been two murders of homosexuals and now that of Vanessa, which is the first of the year registered against a trans woman. 

In April, the judgment of the Inter-American Court of Human Rights (Inter-American Court) is expected for the execution of  Vicky Hernández, the 26-year -old trans woman  murdered between June 28 and 29, 2009, in full curfew for the coup in Honduras that deposed then-president Manuel Zelaya. 

Vicky's murder remains unpunished. The Inter-American Court deliberated last March on the judgment of the Hernández case versus the State of Honduras. If the Honduran State is found guilty for the death of Vicky, it will be the first sentence of this Court on violence against trans people in Latin America and one more reference, as was the sentence for the transvesticide / transfemicide of Diana Sacayán, for the countries of the region. 

Hostile context for ddhh

On January 21, the National Congress of Honduras prohibited abortion in any circumstance  as well as marriage between people of the same sex  and there is no free union for Honduran sexual diversity. Unions celebrated in other countries are not recognized either.

At the end of March, the Supreme Court of Honduras admitted an appeal of unconstitutionality  presented by Cattachas  against the reform of articles 67 and 112 of the Constitution of Honduras on abortion and equal marriage. Admission was the first step.

In mid-January, more than  300 people of sexual diversity from Honduras fled  in the first migrant caravan to the United States. Many of them were unable to reach their destinations because they were detained by migration authorities in Guatemala and Mexico and then deported to Honduras. 


https://agenciapresentes.org/2021/04/05/exigen-que-el-crimen-de-vanessa-zuniga-no-quede-impune-la-activista-trans-hondurena-fue-degollada

https://www.laprensa.hn/honduras/1454217-410/conadeh-condena-asesinato-mujer-trans-tela

https://reportarsinmiedo.org/2021/04/05/mas-muertes-lgbti-degollada-hallan-a-activista-trans-en-honduras

https://twitter.com/CONADEH/status/1378432836601004037

https://twitter.com/guacamoleada/status/1380603941847756801
