Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-06-25T08:33:02+01:00

====== La Taylorcita (Cali - Jun 2010) ======
Created Friday 25 June 2021
@violence



La Taylorcita
Jun 2010
Loma de la Cruz (Loma de la Dignidad) nr Calle 5 [behind Club Noel]
Cali
Valle del Cauca
Colombia
stabbed
NOT ON TDOR LIST



La Taylorcita: story of the murder of a trans woman in Cali
Juan, a young man from the LGTBI + community, told us the shocking story of how a police officer took the life of his friend, La Taylorcita.
By: JulianJaraUribe
This is the story of a trans woman from Cali that her friends affectionately called 'La Taylorcita'. The young man who tells the story is his best friend, he also belongs to the LGTBI + community and witnessed this unfortunate act of violence.

Juan is a young man from the city of Cali who, in June 2010, experienced a traumatic event that remains with him to this day. She saw her friend, La Taylorcita, bleed to death on a city street. Before this episode there is a story involving a Police officer.

It all started in Loma de la Cruz (now renamed Loma de la Dignidad) which is a recognized meeting point for the LGTBI + community in Cali. This is where Juan begins his story by remembering everything that happened that first day of meeting with his friend.


Photo: Hroy Chávez - Publimetro Colombia
Juan tells the story of La Taylorcita
I had a friend, at that time she was in her transition process to aesthetically fulfill herself as a woman. At that time it was very normal for police officers to demand sexual favors from trans women as protection. We don't know as what kind of protection, because they never provided it, but it was basically so that metalheads or punks wouldn't beat us up.

So my friend, she messed with a policeman. He started to like it. This policeman began to be flirtatious and I saw him as normal, but we learned that this officer had a wife and two children. One day while in civilian clothes, they met at the La14 de Calima shopping center at around 3:00 pm and my friend called me and said “go, I met him at La14 and greeted him on impulse”. The policeman's wife was a few meters away and then she began to ask him who it was that greeted him since even if his appearance was still masculine, my friend La Taylorcita was very effeminate.

The plainclothes officer tells him that he does not know him and leaves the place. Between police officers and LGTBI + people there are certain codes of behavior. If they greet you first, you can respond, but not vice versa. It's like a code of manliness.


Photo: Hroy Chávez - Publimetro Colombia
Taylorcita was reunited with the policeman
3 days after meeting at the mall, we returned to Loma de la Cruz and met the officer again. On this occasion and without a word, the police officer attacked her, apparently because he had a fight with his wife over the greeting they crossed.

After two weeks, every time he saw her, he would fight her. We did not understand why. Later we found out that the wife began to follow in his footsteps and found out about all the twists he did and according to what they told us, that greeting had destroyed his marriage, it seems that they separated.


Photo: Hroy Chávez - Publimetro Colombia
Then, 3 weeks after the first fight, we were leaving the Loma de la Cruz towards Calle 5. When we saw that it was full of metalheads, we went down the block behind the Noel Club. We saw a motorcycle and it was the policeman but dressed in civilian clothes, he told my friend that "you are a fucking prostitute and just as you ended my marriage, I am going to end you."

We tried to run to the Club Noel to look for people who could save us, there was an open door, we got in, and that person expelled us because he thought we were thieves, he threw us out. The policeman crosses the motorcycle and La Taylorcita told me to separate. I went to Jovita's park looking for help and saw the motorcycle go down Calle del Muerto, I knew something had happened.


Photo: Hroy Chávez - Publimetro Colombia
I ran out with two boys and when we arrived she was lying on the floor bleeding, she had received many stabs in the stomach. Someone called for a taxi, they took her to the HUV and when I came to, her cousin told me that they had killed her. Her parents did not want her and asked to be cremated, in less than 48 hours La Taylorcita's body no longer existed.

The policeman never returned to the CAI, we went to the stations, we visited La14 as a group to try to find that man whose last name we only had, Camargo. The only thing the authorities told us was "if the family is not doing anything for her, why are you?" How were they going to do if her parents hated her for being trans.

“After this event I got into karate with other friends to defend myself because the situation in 2010 and 2011 in Cali was really tough. The schools of self-defense were filled with gays ”.

John's phrase

Photo: Hroy Chávez - Publimetro Colombia
Violence against the LGTBI + community
The case of La Taylorcita is just one of many that occur in this community across the country. According to Colombia Diversa, an NGO that works for the welfare and legal and social recognition of the LGBTI + community in Colombia, the figures are outrageous.

Between 2018 and 2019, 601 cases of violence against LGTBI + people were documented. The comparative table shows that between these two years there were 161 cases of police violence, 225, threats and 215 homicides.

The amount

Colombia Diversa registered 10 homicides of LGTBI + people in Valle del Cauca in 2020
The figures according to the preliminary balance of violence last year are just as worrying. Between January 1 and December 31, 2020, the NGO registered 75 homicides and femicides of LGTBI + people throughout the country. Only in Valle del Cauca there were 10, being the second department with the most deaths in this community tied with Atlántico. The first was Antioquia with 13 homicides.

35 of the 75 deaths registered by Colombia Diversa occurred during the mandatory isolation decreed by the National Government between March 25 and August 31 in order to contain the pandemic. This shows that Colombia continues to be a homophobic country and very dangerous for the LGTBI + community on the street, and even in the same house.

https://www.publimetro.co/co/noticias/2021/06/24/la-taylorcita-historia-del-homicidio-de-una-mujer-trans-en-cali.html
