Content-Type: text/x-zim-wiki
Wiki-Format: zim 0.4
Creation-Date: 2021-02-03T09:47:24+00:00

====== Liz Carmichael (Feb 2004) ======
Created Wednesday 03 February 2021
@medical



Geralidine Elizabeth Carmichael ("Liz Carmichael")
76?
Feb 2004 [born 1937 or 1928]
cancer


The Lady and the Dale's Liz Carmichael Was a Trans Woman, Scammer, and Devoted Mom
Director Zackary Drucker explains the disgraced entrepreneur's complicated legacy.

By Samantha Vincenty
Feb 1, 2021
elizabeth carmichael and the dale car
HBO
G. Elizabeth "Liz" Carmichael was an entrepreneur and mother of five who rose to fame in 1974 with the promise of a three-wheel car called the Dale.
When Carmichael and five associates were arrested for fraud, the fact that Carmichael was a trans woman became a central focus of the media.
Now the subject of an HBO Max documentary series, The Lady and the Dale, here's what to know about Liz Carmichael, her wife Vivian, and their five kids.
Liz Carmichael and the Dale, the invention that would ultimately land her in prison for fraud, arrived right on time. As founder of the Twentieth Century Motor Car Corporation in 1974, the "widowed" mother of five made headlines as living proof of the exciting possibilities touted by the women's liberation movement. What's more, Carmichael claimed to have a solution to the oil crisis that was hitting American's gas prices hard: The Dale, a futuristic three-wheeled car that would get 70 miles to the gallon and cost only $2000, challenging the "Big Three" automakers' hold on the market.

Except, the Dale wasn't real—or nowhere near viable to drive, anyway. And Carmichael wasn't a widow, she was a transgender woman who was still married to her fourth wife, Vivian. As unfurled in The Lady and the Dale, HBO Max's 4-part docuseries, when Carmichael's public activities put her private life in the spotlight, the fact that the entrepreneur was trans played a large part in how she—and her legal case—were perceived. The case will likely draw comparisons to the subject of another HBO documentary about Theranos founder Elizabeth Holmes, but director Zackary Drucker depicts the events through the lens of trans history.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
“It’s stranger than fiction,” says Drucker, who says Transparent star Jay Duplass first told her about the saga (Duplass is a producer on the doc). “But by the end of the project, I realized that Liz’s story has so many prescient themes that reverberate in trans life today: her lack of access to trans-related healthcare, her inability to gain lawful employment after transitioning, the way that she was treated in media. And the way that her identity was conflated with her life as a criminal.”

Here was a central challenge in telling Liz Carmichael’s story: While she experienced what so many trans people have experienced historically—the mischaracterization of her body as inherently dishonest, and thus criminal—Carmichael also did break financial laws, and her family lived on the lam due crimes Carmichael committed in her pre-transition life as Jerry Dean Michael. “I wonder if the reason why I'd never heard of Liz Carmichael is because that image of her was so persistent, ‘Liz Carmichael is Jerry Dean Michael, masquerading as a woman to evade law enforcement’,” Drucker says. Thus, the filmmakers decided to keep those two threads as separate as possible. [Ed note: While OprahMag.com follows GLAAD's best practices on covering the trans community in not using one's original birth name or sex, Jerry Michael is named in The Lady and the Dale, and Liz's life before transitioning is treated as a separate narrative.]

While the first episode is about the 45 years leading up to Liz’s transition, in the second episode, “we intentionally never say anything about Liz being trans, so you’re thinking about her as a mother and an entrepreneur,” Drucker, who is a trans woman herself, explains. Later in the series, when watching the events that follow her arrest, you’re re-confronted with how society, and the criminal justice system right down to the members of her trial jury, really perceived Liz’s life as a trans woman.

Liz Carmichael was born in 1937.
As a child, Carmichael lived in Jasonville, Indiana before moving to Detroit, Michigan. In interviews promoting the Dale that are recreated by a voice actor in the documentary, Carmichael described a "dirt poor" upbringing as a girl on a farm, though classmatesremembered her upbringing differently.

"When folks transitioned in the '60s, they were directed by their doctors to tell positive stories about their lives to make a false backstory," Drucker explains. "'I was an Indiana farmgirl, I grew up tearing down tractor engines while the other girls were'...yadda yadda yadda. That doesn't derivate from what the majority of trans people had to make up about themselves in the 20th century." Being found out could, and still can, mean a loss of work, housing, or—as the murder of trans man Brandon Teena first illuminated for many in the late '90s—death.

Michael married four times, according to an FBI file cited in the documentary. He was charged with desertion for leaving his first wife Marga, whom he met while stationed in Germany, and their two children. He married a woman named Juanita in 1954 and had two more kids; she estimated that they moved 21 times by the time of their split in 1956. His 1958 marriage to a woman named Betty Sweets that he'd known for 4 weeks ended within a year, but not before they'd conceived a baby daughter.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
Jerry Dean Michael and his wife Vivian Barrett went on the run in 1961.
A door-to-door salesmen and failed newspaper publisher, Michael was repeatedly arrested or fired for pocketing money through side schemes prior to becoming Liz Carmichael. Vivian Barrett met Michael while working as a waitress when she was 16, according to her brother, Charles Richard Barrett in The Lady and the Dale, and they married. Michael made fake I.D.s and passed bad checks, though when Charles was arrested alongside his brother-in-law for those crimes, he said Michael made sure to take the fall (and, ever the self-promoter, asked for the article about the arrest as a souvenir).

Now living in California, Michael was arrested again in 1961, for printing and distributing fake money through a counterfeit front called the Los Angeles Distribution Company. Caught, Michael jumped bail with Vivian, and they grew to a family of seven while living on the run. Never living anywhere for more than a few months, they changed identities using stolen records, and home-schooled their five kids.

When Jerry first informed Vivian that he was actually Liz, a trans woman, an upset Vivian left town with two of their children. In a letter attempting to explain what she was going through, Jerry wrote to Vivian, “I’m not a man anymore, at least not in the sexual sense, if I ever was.” Ultimately, it was a love letter, stating “I’d walk through fire for you and the kids.” Vivian returned home. As Carmichael's secretary years later at Twentieth Century Motor, they said they were sisters-in-law.

liz carmichael the dale
HBO
Shortly after Carmichael's criminal trial over the Dale fraud, Vivian filed for divorce. Liz continued fugitive life on the road with the kids who chose to travel with her, while Vivian remarried shortly before her death of cancer. In The Lady and the Dale, their son Michael remembers the two as "like sisters."

Two of Liz and Vivian's kids appear in The Lady and the Dale.
Liz and Vivian's oldest daughter, Candi, features prominently in the HBO documentary, and their son Michael appears as well. Two of their other kids are deceased, and their third surviving sibling declined to be interviewed on camera. "It may seem like a blindspot, but we wanted to respect the pain in their lives, and not exploit their names," Drucker says of their absence from the series.

Advertisement - Continue Reading Below
“We might’ve had a strange family, but we were a tight-knit family,” Candi says in The Lady and the Dale. She and her siblings remember their upbringing as chaotic but adventurous; at one point before coming out as Liz, Jerry owned a pet store and their house ran wild with creatures. “Jerry couldn’t do anything on a small basis,” she adds.

It was a difficult and slow process to obtain the hormones and surgery required to transition in the 1960s and 1970s; Liz self-administered hormone injections procured from veterinarians, according to Candi, and had traveled to Mexico for breast implant surgery in 1969 while hoping to one day get bottom surgery, or vaginoplasty. Liz and Vivian's kids were slowly acclimated to the idea of Liz, too. "The first part of the transition was just calling Daddy ‘Jerry,'" Candi says. Over about three years, "Jerry became Aunt Jerry, then Aunt Liz, and then our mother." Candi would hear her practice speaking as a woman through the door.

"I think a lot of people go, 'Oh, Liz became trans at 45.' But Liz was always trans, operating with the tools available to her," says Drucker. "She transitioned when she could, later in life. She messed up in a lot of ways, but that's the reality of the messiness of trying to figure yourself out in a world that doesn't have a place for you."

Tucker Carlson's father, Dick Carlson, led the charge on investigating Carmichael.
With the founding of Twentieth Century Motor Car Corporation, Liz became a widely-known figure in California in 1973 via her charm and PT Barnum-esque claims of what the Dale would be (at one point she insisted its body was bulletproof, and another time she'd said she safely drove the prototype into the ocean). This attracted the attention of L.A. TV station KABC reporter Dick Carlson, who admits in The Lady and the Dale that he and colleague Pete Noyes "were always bothered by the fact that she looked like a man,” and it propelled their interest.

Carlson and Noyes played an instrumental role in bringing Twentieth Century Motor's shadier practices to both the public's and the California securities investigators' attention, airing multiple news investigations. In 1975, Carmichael and five Twentieth Century Motors colleagues were ultimately arrested for conspiracy, grand theft, fraud, and counterfeiting after the company moved from California to Texas, though Carmichael maintained throughout the trail that the Dale was real, and simply not ready yet.

When the police arrived to search the Carmichael family’s abandoned home in Dallas as the arrests were made, they found a variety of padded women’s undergarments and gender transition-related reading material. Acting on letters found from Liz to Vivian, authorities visited Vivian’s brother, who informed them of Liz’s trans identity.

Authorities and media outlets uniformly portrayed Liz as a male criminal who tried to trick the public by cross-dressing. "She Really Is a He" was the title of a 1975 People article on the scandal reflective of the time's tone, which alternately portrayed Carmichael's trans identity as a lie ("apparently the 6′, 175-pound Michael passed himself off as Liz Carmichael for 13 years") and a perversion ("He evidently derived as much pleasure from his tightrope walk between sexual identities as from his numerous scams to relieve the public of loose cash.")

Related Story
Hair, Face, Eyebrow, Skin, Beauty, Lip, Hairstyle, Chin, Cheek, Forehead,
Pose's Angelica Ross on Fighting for Trans Women
To this day, Carlson maintains the belief that Carmichael’s trans identity was a malevolent ruse, inseparable from her criminal activities. “She used them, just like she used Vivian,” he says of Carmichael’s kids in The Lady and the Dale. “If you didn’t think that was kind of sick, you wouldn’t think Jeffrey Dahmer was a normal person.”

"Liz is the trans bogeyman of Tucker Carlson's childhood," Drucker jokes.

"When Dick comes along, he is asking good questions, and has integrity as a journalist," she continues. "And then you realize that his bias is a motivating factor, he goes above and beyond to drag her through the mud."

Liz's kids, Candi and Michael, remember both of their mothers fondly in The Lady and the Dale, sharing memories of family picnics, and Carmichael's umpteenth reinvention as a flower vendor in Texas. After enjoying years with her family after her time in prison, Liz Carmichael died in 2004 after several health complications, including cancer.

"Her story is so bombastic and extraordinary," says Drucker. "And as a protagonist, Liz was incredibly human in her many flaws."

The Lady and the Dale premieres Sunday, January 31, on HBO.




The Dale: a revolutionary car, a murder and the weirdest scam of the 70s
by Paloma GonzálezFebruary 2, 2021
Liz Carmichael promised the world an affordable and revolutionary car, but it was all part of a crazy scam.

The Dale was going to be the car that will revolutionize the industry, but behind it were a few hidden secrets, a scam and even a murder, and in the end it turned out to be insane.

Back in the 70's a woman named Liz Carmichael wanted to create a car that will change the world and leave everyone before to shame, she would be the first woman to do so and in the process give the world a more efficient vehicle (especially in in terms of fuel consumption), futuristic in design and much cheaper, which was exceptional at a time when gasoline was starting to rise in prices and the world was looking for options that would not hurt their budgets so much.

The Dale was a three-wheeled car, similar to a Corbin Sparrow , it had been built with a fiberglass-like material called Rigidex and Twentieth Century Motors Corporation said in its brochure that it would reach 85 MPH and cost less than $ 2,000, which which was very cheap even in 1974. They also said that the car had no cables thanks to a printed circuit board and that it was very resistant. “Ounce, for ounce, the strongest material known. The force of the hammer will not dent or destroy the body, "the ad read.

Behind The Dale was Liz Carmichael, a trans woman who claimed to be an engineer and who used her charisma and her talent for public relations to "sell" the concept. Carmichael said in an interview with People that “They thought Henry Ford was crazy. I will show you. I'm going to rule the auto industry like a queen. "

The story of Liz and The Dale now appears in a new HBO documentary series , The Lady and The Dale , which tells the truth behind The Dale, the scam behind the project and the tragedy that marked its history. Carmichael was one of the first public figures to be exposed as a trans person without his permission.

Liz Carmichael and the past she sought to escape from
Cuando Liz Carmichael contaba su historia, ella decía que había estudiado ingeniería en la Ohio State University, donde en 1966 conoció a su esposo Jim. Después de la muerte de su esposo, ella y su familia se mudaron a California y fue ahí donde, según su historia, construyó su primer coche con la ayuda de su hijo de 12 años.

Liz en realidad había crecido en Indiana y después vivió en Detroit, tuvo tres matrimonios fallidos y 5 hijos, y tuvo que dejar la ciudad después de un negocio que fracasó y de una serie de problemas con la ley. Después Liz conoció a Vivian, se casaron y tuvieron 5 hijos más, se separaron cuando le dijo a su esposa que era una mujer trans y después decidieron volver y salvar su matrimonio.

En 1960, Carmichael era dueña de un periódico, pero en secreto lo utilizaba para imprimir billetes falsos, así que en 1961 fue descubierta y arrestada por los cargos de conspiración y posesión de moneda falsa, pero terminó huyendo antes de que el caso pudiera resolverse y la familia tuvo que mudarse constantemente para evitar su detención.

Liz finalmente llegó California y conoció a un hombre llamado Dale Clifft, que estaba desarrollando el prototipo para un coche de tres ruedas que había registrado como una motocicleta. Liz compró los derechos a cambio de las regalías y decidió nombrar al vehículo The Dale, con el que comenzó Twentieth Century Motor Car Company.

The Dale, el prototipo de Liz Carmichael 
© The Dale 

The Dale y la gran estafa
Junto con un equipo de publicistas, Liz comenzó a vender la idea de que este sería un coche accesible, resistente, seguro y eficiente, comenzó a dar entrevistas a medios como People y Newseweek e incluso consiguió un espacio en el popular programa The Price is Right, pero el coche no estaba cerca de ser lo que prometía y los ingenieros dijeron tiempo después que necesitaba mucho más tiempo para llegar a ser lo que decía ser.

De acuerdo con The New York Times, Liz dijo en una ocasión que “No estoy aquí por el bien de la gente, estoy aquí por el bien de Liz Carmichael. Voy a hacer exactamente lo que el público están buscando y voy a dejar sin aliento a Detroit haciéndolo".

With all those interviews and television appearances, The Dale's sales began to increase, the problem was that the car had not yet been created and the company was ordered to stop after ordering shares for public sale without permission. Liz, who had already raised more than $ 30 million to produce her prototypes, decided to move to Dallas and announced that they would have 88,000 cars ready by 1975.

Things got more complicated at the company when, according to an investigation by Petersen museum curator Leslie Kendall , “In late January 1975, TCMCC salesman and former public relations representative William D. Miller was found murdered in his Encino office, victim of four gunshot wounds to the head. The main suspect was his co-worker Jack Oliver, who, it was soon discovered, had previously served with Miller at San Quentin prison. "

With the murder, the story began to generate more curiosity and finally the California Superior Court determined that the company did not have the resources to produce the cars and in the process, journalist Dick Carlson learned of Camichael's story and decided to start investigating. . Dick ended up revealing on his show that Carmichael was actually a transgender woman

But Liz was a smart woman, so she managed to escape. She was finally arrested in April 1975 and faced a sentence of between 10 and 20 years for all the charges against her, but she was able to pay a bail of $ 30,000 and again disappeared without a trace, her story ended in a chapter of the Unsolved Mysteries series , which he helped find in 1989, living under the identity of Katherine Johnson and leading a flower business.

Liz spent 18 months in a men's prison, despite being recognized as a woman in court, but eventually served her sentence and died of cancer in 2004.




"The Lady and The Dale". The strange case of the three-wheeled car and the woman who built it (or maybe not)
"The Lady and The Dale" is a documentary mini-series on HBO about Liz Carmichael and her revolutionary vehicle. But it is also a story of American deceptions, persecutions and nightmares.

03 Feb 2021, 08:32

i
? “The Lady And The Dale” turns out to be more about Lady Liz than about the Dale Car, although they both share the fate of being unable to establish boundaries between dream and lie, between ambition and mythomania


To discover
The mythology of the passage of time on social media says that what is the controversy du jour on a Monday will have disappeared from the map by Thursday. We live in a zapping of links, more or less contextualized headlines, shares, of which after months, years, little sand remains. Perhaps this is partly due to the resounding success of so many documentary series, a genre that came out of niche film festivals to embrace the generation streaming streaming tops. The need to dwell on things, to scrutinize them. And, of course, it also serves as a kind of antibiotic for this contemporary disease called FOMO (Fear Of Missing Out): “How did this incredible story that even made the news escape me?”.

PUB • CONTINUE READING NEXT

The real case reported in the four episodes (equivalent to as many hours) of “The Lady And The Deal”, premiered here on HBO, is so extraordinary and was so controversial in the 70s that it is hard to believe that today it is virtually unknown. It's a story that has it all: crime, intrigue, wild inventions, identity changes, mob henchmen, epic court moments and LGBT rights. It happens so much in the first episode that we come to fear that the rest will be marking a step there. It does not happen, fortunately, but prepare yourself for a starting point between the fascinating and the fascinating, as the producers Duplass Brothers had already accustomed us (the same ones of “Wild Wild Country”, perhaps one of the best and most exciting documentaries of ever).

[the trailer for “The Lady and The Dale”:]

During the fuel crisis, a captivating and enterprising woman named Liz Carmichael declares war on major auto companies by claiming she can produce the Dale, a three-wheeled car, cheap and with much lower consumption than the competition. But this car never really exists, sucking resources from several investors and leading to a huge fraud. When investigating what happened, a news channel finds out why no one had ever heard of Carmichael - it is because he is a transgender woman, who until a few years ago was a wanted swindler named Jerry Dean Michael. And it is here that what looked more like a “crime doc”, like so many that have been done, takes a sharp somersault.

There are so many plots worthy of attention in "The Lady And The Deal" that the viewer barely knows where to turn. To guard against this sensation, the documentary ends up being divided into four angles, one per episode: who was Jerry Dean Michael, what was Dale, what was the court appearance like and what happened after that (with a special focus on how the media looked at a trans woman at the time). Without taking obvious sides, allowing the viewer to fall in love or condemn the protagonists.

Using the current trend of not using a narrator, the documentary opts for an effective editing of current conversations with family members, former collaborators, journalists or specialists in transgender issues, as well as recordings of Liz in period interviews or in a kind of audio diary that the same has maintained since it was Jerry Dean. The biggest formal flaw in “The Lady And The Dale” is perhaps the option of illustrating everything with cutout animations, reminiscent of Terry Gilliam in Monty Python. Aesthetically well accomplished and done with mastery, it is, however, often inadequate in terms of the tone of the scenes, which deserved something less cartoony.

"The Lady And The Dale" turns out to be more about Lady Liz than about the Dale Car, although both have the fate in common of being unable to establish boundaries between dream and lie, between ambition and mythomania. There is a car that nobody knows if it is technically possible to make and a woman whose legitimacy as a transsexual is called into question not only by prejudice, but by the past. Is a scammer running away from the police interested in changing sex because he was born in the wrong body or because he needs a disguise? Reality, the philosopher said, never makes more sense than fiction.

https://www.oprahmag.com/entertainment/tv-movies/a35325931/liz-carmichael-wife-kids/

https://www.caranddriver.com/features/a35366583/liz-carmichael-dale-documentary/

https://www.esquire.com/entertainment/movies/a35366211/what-happened-to-liz-carmichael-the-lady-and-the-dale-true-story/

https://www.gq.com.mx/entretenimiento/articulo/the-dale-la-estafa-de-liz-carmichael-documental-hbo

https://observador.pt/2021/02/03/the-lady-and-the-dale-o-estranho-caso-do-carro-de-tres-rodas-e-da-mulher-que-o-construiu-ou-talvez-nao/

https://www.refinery29.com/en-us/2019/04/229275/liz-carmichael-elizabeth-holmes-theranos-comparisons

https://unsolvedmysteries.fandom.com/wiki/Liz_Carmichael

https://www.hemmings.com/stories/article/the-right-to-remain-historical

https://lgbt.wikia.org/wiki/Liz_Carmichael

https://web.archive.org/web/20160817042741/http://www.people.com/people/archive/article/0,,20065184,00.html

https://www.biography.com/crime-figure/elizabeth-carmichael

https://en.wikipedia.org/wiki/Geraldine_Elizabeth_Carmichael

https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=FOZWutV0jwU
